Skip to main content Search DONATE Get help Get involved First aid About us Shop Stories First aid First Aid A minute can make a difference.
Only 4 in 10 people in the UK would feel confident helping someone in a first aid emergency.
Together, we can learn how to respond to emergencies.
Would you know how to respond in a first aid emergency?
The British Red Cross offers free online workshops and resources to learn or teach first aid.
We’re here to help you build skills and confidence to save lives.
Please always consider your personal safety when giving first aid.
Look out for any dangers and only act when you're confident it is safe to do so.
On this page you can: Learn or teach simple first aid skills Find a free first aid workshop Book a paid first aid course with Red Cross Training Download our free first aid app Read true first aid stories Learn and teach Use our free online resources to learn simple first aid skills or teach first aid in classrooms.
Learn first aid Free first aid resources, workshops and self-directed learning to support your learning in a way that suits you.
You can also learn first aid for babies and children.
Teach first aid Curriculum information and free resources to teach life-saving first aid skills to students and test their knowledge.
Also available in Welsh.
First aid videos Challenge yourself by taking a few minutes out of your day to learn five skills from our videos.
Follow along to learn essential skills to help someone in an emergency.
First aid workshops and Red Cross Training courses What is the difference between a workshop and a course?
Workshop: free first aid workshops for individuals and schools that empower learners with basic first aid skills using everyday objects.
These workshops are free but unaccredited.
Course: accredited first aid courses (provided by Red Cross Training) that require payment and give learners a valuable first aid qualification.
Free first aid workshops Free workshops, online or face-to-face, to learn basic first aid skills.
These workshops are unaccredited, but equip you with basic skills to respond in a first aid emergency.
Book an adult workshop Book a youth workshop Paid first aid courses Learn about health and safety, first aid at work, mental health training and more.
These accredited courses by Red Cross Training require payment and will give you a valuable first aid qualification.
Book a first aid course Donate to help us provide first aid training Our free online resources and workshops teach lifesaving first aid and wellbeing skills to millions of people.
We rely on donations to make this possible.
Donate now Free first aid app by British Red Cross A free app developed by the British Red Cross to help you learn and practise first aid.
Access first aid advice easily Download our free first aid app to learn and practise first aid.
With our digital helper, you can have first aid skills with you wherever you go.
True first aid stories Read about times where simple first aid skills helped save real lives.
"Knowing first aid helped me save a motorcyclist's life." Not everyone could handle the sight of a bloodied motorcyclist with a badly severed leg.
Helen Cowan could, and her British Red Cross first aid knowledge saved a man’s life.
How to help a 10-month old baby with burns It took less than 10 seconds for baby Tamzin to be in a life-threatening situation.
See all first aid true stories Do you really need to learn first aid skills?
How useful could they be in your day-to-day life?
Read our true stories and see for yourself.
Buy first aid products Get high-quality automated external defibrillators (AEDs) and manuals from the British Red Cross.
Buy approved first aid products Do you have a question about this page or want to give us feedback?
Visit our Contact Us page.
Contact us Jobs Sitemap Cymraeg Login Terms and conditions Privacy Accessibility Cookies Manage Cookies Modern slavery statement ©2025 British Red Cross The British Red Cross Society, incorporated by Royal Charter 1908, is a charity registered in England and Wales (220949), Scotland (SC037738), Isle of Man (0752) and Jersey (430).
Cookies This website uses cookies, including from our trusted partners, to improve and personalise your experience.
You can accept all cookies by clicking "Accept", or you can click "Manage Cookies" to view our Cookies Preference Centre and choose which cookies we can use.
Manage CookiesAccept Cookies
Skip to main content Search DONATE Get help Get involved First aid About us Shop Stories Get involved Teaching resources Community education workshops Youth workshops Youth workshops: Helping young people build essential life skills Community education workshops for children, teens and young people Our free educational workshops cover a range of topics including building resilience, first aid, wellbeing, and migration.
Available to ages 10 to 19, explore what young people could achieve.
Free workshops for primary and secondary schools and youth groups Free workshops for young people in schools and youth groups, aged 10-19, covering humanitarian and wellbeing topics.
Our youth workshops teach vital life skills including confidence, resilience building, and developing empathy for others.
British Red Cross educators developed these workshop sessions to reflect UK curriculums and issues experienced in the community.
Jump to: What's involved in a youth workshop?
First aid workshop Empathy plus migration workshop Coping with challenges workshop More resources for teachers Frequently asked questions What's involved in a youth workshop?
Our workshop topics for young people and teens include first aid, empathy and migration, and coping with challenges.
Each workshop differs slightly depending on the topic and delivery type, but all follow the same structure.
Introduction: The educator will explain how the session runs and what your group will do.
Practice: This will change depending on the topic, but it will be a chance for the group to try practical exercises and youth training to help build their skills.
Discuss: Everyone in the group will have the chance to discuss and share their views if they are comfortable to do so.
Reflect: Everyone in the group can share how they felt about the workshop and what they learned with the educator.
Your educator will also recommend what they can do next to continue with the topic.
First aid In this youth workshop, students learn essential first aid skills.
We help them to build the confidence and willingness to help someone in an emergency using everyday objects.
Learners will also learn where to find support for their own injury or illness.
Time length: 60 minutes Group size: 5 to 35 participants Delivery: Online, face-to-face (eligible groups only) If you are an individual looking to learn first aid online, check out our Learn first aid skills page.
For additional teaching materials on the topic of first aid, see our Teach first aid page.
Book now Online workshop Book an online first aid workshop for schools, youth groups or any other group below.
Group booking (online) Face-to-face workshop Face-to-face workshops are for groups in communities that need them the most.
Find out if we’re able to deliver a face-to-face workshop in your area or book a session.
Group booking (face-to-face) Looking for first aid workshops for adults (ages 19+)?
Click here.
Empathy plus migration A workshop to learn about the experience of migration and reasons why people may have to leave home.
Students will focus on developing empathy by putting themselves in the shoes of others and engaging in stories of migration.
The workshop helps students challenge assumptions about migrants, asylum seekers and refugees.
Time length: 60 minutes Group size: 5 to 35 Delivery: Online, face-to-face (eligible groups only) For more free resources and classroom activities, see our Refugees and migration teaching resources page.
Book now Online group workshop Use our simple online form to book a free online workshop for your school class or group.
Book online Face-to-face group workshop Our face-to-face workshops are offered to groups in communities that need it the most.
Find out if we’re able to deliver a face-to-face workshop in your area or book a session.
Book face-to-face Coping with challenges This resilience-building workshop uses experiential learning to help young people learn resilience-building skills that help them cope better with the challenges they face.
Learners will: explain how people can cope with challenges using the four pillars of resilience understand the relationship between connections with others and resilience feel confident to apply what they have learned to better cope with challenges Group size: 5 to 35 Time length: 60 minutes Delivery: Online, face-to-face (eligible groups only) Book now Online workshop Use our simple online form to book a free online workshop for your school class or group.
Group booking (online) Face-to-face workshop Our face-to-face workshops are offered to groups in communities that need it the most.
Find out if we’re able to deliver a face-to-face workshop in your area or book a session.
Group booking (face-to-face) Free classroom resources for teachers Alongside our live workshops available to use online in schools, we also provide teaching resources you can download and use in your classroom.
Suitable for ages 5 to 19, the resources cover: first aid disasters and emergencies humanitarianism and the Red Cross International Humanitarian Law and conflict refugees and migration kindness and wellbeing newsthink (current news events) Explore all teaching resources Sign up to the Teaching resources mailing list Sign up to our mailing list and receive new teaching resources straight to your inbox.
Stay updated with our online teaching resources and offline education including free educational workshops, and downloadable resource packs.
Sign up Frequently asked questions Who can take part in a youth workshop?
How can students take part in a workshop?
How can students with additional needs be supported?
What size group can take part?
How does the workshop fit with the curriculums of Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and England?
Will groups need to be supervised?
What level of education will attendees need?
What is expected from those taking part?
I’m having problems booking a workshop, what should I do?
Do students get a certificate or qualification for completing the workshops?
How can students' learning be supported outside of the workshops?
Get in touch If you have any specific questions about the workshops or want to enquire about eligibility for a face-to-face group workshop, please contact us via e-mail or telephone.
Contact details Email us at  Or call us for all enquiries on 0344 412 2734 You may also be interested in..
Teaching resources Inspire the next generation of humanitarians with our lesson plans and quizzes, from first aid to case studies on times of crisis.
Adult education (19+) Are you interested in learning essential first aid skills?
Do you want to explore how to build confidence and coping skills?
If so, our adult workshops are the place for you.
Do you have a question about this page or want to give us feedback?
Visit our Contact Us page.
Contact us Jobs Sitemap Cymraeg Login Terms and conditions Privacy Accessibility Cookies Manage cookies Modern slavery statement ©2025 British Red Cross The British Red Cross Society, incorporated by Royal Charter 1908, is a charity registered in England and Wales (220949), Scotland (SC037738), Isle of Man (0752) and Jersey (430).
