Skip to site content Skip to search An official website of the United States government.
Here's how you know Español The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
HEALTH TOPICS OUTBREAKS ABOUT CDC SEARCH Safe Sleep for Babies Learn More Breast Cancer Awareness Learn More H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation Learn More Safe Sleep for Babies Breast Cancer Awareness H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation Pause carousel HEALTH TOPICS OUTBREAKS ABOUT CDC SEARCH About CDC CDC is the nation's leading science-based, data-driven, service organization that protects the public's health.
CDC works 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Weight and Growth EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Healthy Weight and Growth Water and Healthier Drinks Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight Steps for Losing Weight Tips for Physical Activity and Your Weight Tips for Parents and Caregivers External Resources Be Sugar Smart Rethink Your Drink VIEW ALL Related Topics: Obesity | About Physical Activity | Nutrition View All DECEMBER 28, 2023 Tips for Maintaining Healthy Weight KEY POINTS Healthy lifestyles include being mindful of calories, ensuring adequate nutrition, and being physically active.
Other factors such as sleep, age, genes, and medications can influence weight.
Why it's important Managing your weight contributes to good health now and as you age.
In contrast, obesity can lead to serious health problems including type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke.
Food and nutrition Counting calories all the time is not necessary, but it may help to know how many calories you need.
MyPlate Plan calculates how many daily calories are needed to maintain your current weight.
The calculation is based on your age, sex, height, weight, and physical activity level.
Results show the recommended daily amounts of fruits, vegetables, protein, dairy, and grains for adequate nutrition at your calorie level.
Consuming a variety of healthy food is better than eliminating one type of food such as carbohydrates.
If you reduce the variety of foods you eat, you could exclude vital nutrients or not be able to stay on the eating plan over time.
This diary may help To learn how many calories you consume regularly, write down the foods you eat and the beverages you drink, plus the calories they have, each day.
Check the nutrition facts label for serving sizes and number of calories, and consider portion size.
Food and Beverage Diary Physical activity How much physical activity you need for overall health depends mostly on your age.
Children aged 3 to 5 should be physically active throughout the day for growth and development.
Children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 need 60 minutes or more of moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity each day.
Children and adolescents need aerobic, muscle-strengthening, and bone-strengthening activities.
Healthy pregnant or postpartum women need at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity per week, such as brisk walking.
This can be spread throughout the week, such as 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week.
Adults need 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity each week.
This can be 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week.
As an alternative, adults could get 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity each week.
Adults also need at least 2 days a week of muscle-strengthening activities.
Adults 65 and older need: At least 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity activity such as brisk walking.
At least 2 days a week of activities that strengthen muscles.
Activities to improve balance, such as standing on one foot.
People who are physically active can still gain weight if they take in more calories than they use.
Healthy lifestyles include being physically active, being mindful of calories, and ensuring adequate nutrition.
Tip It may help to keep track of your physical activity.
This diary can help.
Physical Activity Diary Other factors Getting enough sleep can help you manage your body weight.
Other factors that contribute to overweight and obesity include age, medications, medical conditions, genes, and environmental factors.
As people age, their body composition gradually shifts—the proportion of muscle decreases and the proportion of fat increases.
This shift slows their metabolism, making it easier to gain weight.
In addition, some people become less physically active as they get older, increasing the risk of weight gain.
Diseases such as Cushing's disease and polycystic ovary syndrome may lead to weight gain or obesity.
Drugs such as steroids and some antidepressants may also cause weight gain.
Genes can directly cause obesity in specific, single-gene disorders, such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome.
However, multiple genes often interact with environmental factors to affect health.
Environmental factors can make it harder to eat healthy or be physically active.
Examples include limited access to healthier foods or places to be physically active, such as sidewalks.
The presence of certain chemicals in the environment may also affect weight.
Your health care provider is the best person to ask whether illnesses or medications are contributing to weight gain or making weight loss hard.
Resources Nutrition in Daily Life Good nutrition is essential for staying healthy throughout the stages of life.
Tips for Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight People with healthy eating patterns lives longer and are at lower risk for serious health problems such as heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and obesity.
Water and Healthier Drinks Water has no calories, so replacing sugary drinks with plain water can help reduce caloric intake.
Physical Activity in Daily One way to help your physical and mental health is to stay physically active.
Physical Activity and Your Health Physical activity can increase the number of calories your body uses for energy.
Burning calories through physical activity, combined with reducing the number of calories you eat, can help with weight loss.
Physical Activity Benefits Physical activity can make you feel better, function better, and sleep better.
Learn about the benefits and how to measure progress.
About Sleep Getting enough sleep can help you improve your heart health and metabolism while also reducing your risk of chronic conditions among other things.
Losing Weight Even a modest weight loss, such as 5% to 10% of your total body weight, can produce health benefits.
Food Assistance and Food Systems Resources Resources for food assistance in everyday situations, as well as before, during, and after emergencies and disasters.
These resources are for individuals and organizations.
ON THIS PAGE Why it's important Food and nutrition Physical activity Other factors Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Weight and Growth Eating well and being physically active contribute to healthy growth in childhood and good health throughout life.
See how to get started.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Hantavirus EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Reported Cases of Hantavirus Disease About Hantavirus Hantavirus Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview of Hantavirus Veterinary Guidance Hantavirus Disease Trainings for Healthcare Providers VIEW ALL Public Health Case Definition and Reporting VIEW ALL View All MAY 13, 2024 About Hantavirus KEY POINTS Hantaviruses are a family of viruses which can cause serious illnesses and death.
These viruses cause diseases like hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) and hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS).
They are spread mainly by rodents and are not spread from person-to-person.
Overview Hantaviruses can infect and cause serious disease in people worldwide.
People get hantavirus from contact with rodents like rats and mice, especially when exposed to their urine, droppings, and saliva.
It can also spread through a bite or scratch by a rodent, but this is rare.
Hantaviruses cause two syndromes.
Hantaviruses found in the Western Hemisphere, including here in the U.S., can cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS).
The most common hantavirus that causes HPS in the U.S.
is spread by the deer mouse.
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is a group of clinically similar illnesses caused by hantaviruses found mostly in Europe and Asia.
However, Seoul virus, a type of hantavirus that causes HFRS, is found worldwide, including in the United States.
Signs and symptoms Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) HPS is a severe and potentially deadly disease that affects the lungs.
Symptoms of HPS usually start to show 1 to 8 weeks after contact with an infected rodent.
Early symptoms can include: fatigue fever muscle aches, especially in the large muscle groups like the thighs, hips, back, and sometimes shoulders About half of all HPS patients also experience: headaches dizziness chills abdominal problems, like nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain Four to 10 days after the initial phase of illness, the late symptoms of HPS appear.
These symptoms include coughing and shortness of breath.
Patients might experience tightness in the chest, as the lungs fill with fluid.
HPS can be deadly.
Thirty-eight percent of people who develop respiratory symptoms may die from the disease.
Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS) HFRS is a severe and sometimes deadly disease that affects the kidneys.
Symptoms of HFRS usually develop within 1 to 2 weeks after exposure.
In rare cases, they may take up to 8 weeks to develop.
Initial symptoms begin suddenly and include: intense headaches back and abdominal pain fever/chills nausea blurred vision People may have flushing of the face, inflammation or redness of the eyes, or a rash.
Later symptoms can include: low blood pressure lack of blood flow (acute shock) internal bleeding (vascular leakage) acute kidney failure, which can cause severe fluid overload The severity of the disease varies depending on the virus causing the infection.
Hantaan and Dobrava virus infections usually cause severe symptoms where 5-15% of cases are fatal.
In contrast, Seoul, Saaremaa, and Puumala virus infections are usually more moderate with less than 1% dying from the disease.
Complete recovery can take several weeks to months.
Reducing risk Eliminate or minimize contact with rodents in your home, workplace, or campsite to reduce your risk of exposure to hantaviruses.
Seal holes and gaps in your home or garage to keep rodents from entering these spaces.
Place traps in and around your home to decrease rodent infestation.
Clean up any easy-to-get food that might attract rodents.
KEEP READING: Hantavirus Prevention Diagnosis Diagnosing hantavirus in a person who has been infected less than 72 hours is difficult.
If the initial test is done before the virus can be found, repeat testing is often done 72 hours after symptom start.
Early symptoms such as fever, headache muscle aches, nausea, and fatigue are easily confused with influenza.
If you suspect hantavirus disease, see a physician immediately and mention a potential rodent exposure.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Clinician Brief: Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Clinician Brief: Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome State laboratories and CDC can confirm a diagnosis through testing.
If you have any questions or concerns regarding submitting a specimen or any public health emergency, please contact your state or local health department or contact the CDC's Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100.
Treatment and recovery There is no specific treatment for hantavirus infection.
Patients should receive supportive care, including rest, hydration, and treatment of symptoms.
HPS can cause breathing difficulties, and patients may need breathing support, such as intubation.
Intubation is a medical procedure where a tube is placed in the lungs from the mouth to help the patient get oxygen.
HFRS can disrupt kidney function.
Patients with HFRS may need dialysis to remove toxins from the blood and maintain the right balance of fluids in the body when the kidneys aren't working well.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Clinical Overview of Hantavirus ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs and symptoms Reducing risk Diagnosis Treatment and recovery SOURCES PRINT SHARE Hantavirus Learn about Hantavirus, how it spreads and how to protect yourself.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Clean Hands EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Handwashing Hand Hygiene as a Family Activity Hand Hygiene FAQs Handwashing Facts Publications, Data, & Statistics Health Promotion Materials Global Handwashing Day Clean Hands and Spaces: Handwashing and Cleaning in Educational Facilities Life is Better with Clean Hands Campaign VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Safety Healthcare Training Clean Hands Count Materials VIEW ALL View All APRIL 17, 2024 Handwashing Facts WHAT TO KNOW Many diseases and conditions are spread by not washing hands with soap and clean, running water.
CDC recommends cleaning hands in a specific way to avoid getting sick and spreading germs to others.
The recommendations for effective handwashing and use of hand sanitizer was developed based on data from a number of studies.
Learn more about the science behind how to wash your hands and why clean hands help keep you stay healthy.
Key facts People often get sick when they make contact with germs from feces (poop) on their hands Feces (poop) from people or animals is an important source of germs like Salmonella, E.
coli O157, and norovirus that cause diarrhea, and it can spread some respiratory infections like adenovirus and hand-foot-mouth disease.
These kinds of germs can get onto hands after people use the toilet or change a diaper, but also in less obvious ways, like after handling raw meats that have invisible amounts of animal poop on them.
A single gram of human feces—which is about the weight of a paper clip—can contain one trillion germs.
Germs can also get onto hands if people touch any object that has germs on it because someone coughed or sneezed on it or was touched by some other contaminated object.
When these germs get onto hands and are not washed off, they can be passed from person to person and make people sick.
Washing hands prevents illnesses and spread of infections to others Handwashing with soap removes germs from hands.
This helps prevent infections because: People frequently touch their eyes, nose, and mouth without even realizing it.
Germs can get into the body through the eyes, nose and mouth and make us sick.
Germs from unwashed hands can get into foods and drinks while people prepare or consume them.
Germs can multiply in some types of foods or drinks, under certain conditions, and make people sick.
Germs from unwashed hands can be transferred to other objects, like handrails, tabletops, or toys, and then transferred to another person's hands.
Teaching people about handwashing helps them and their communities stay healthy.
Handwashing education in the community: Reduces the number of people who get sick with diarrhea by 23-40% Reduces diarrheal illness in people with weakened immune systems by 58% Reduces respiratory illnesses, like colds, in the general population by 16-21% Reduces absenteeism due to gastrointestinal illness in schoolchildren by 29-57% Not washing hands harms children around the world About 1.8 million children under the age of 5 die each year from diarrheal diseases and pneumonia, the top two killers of young children around the world.
Handwashing with soap could protect about 1 out of every 3 young children who get sick with diarrhea, and almost 1 out of 5 young children with respiratory infections like pneumonia.
Although people around the world clean their hands with water, very few use soap to wash their hands.
Washing hands with soap removes germs much more effectively.
Handwashing education and access to soap in schools can help improve attendance.
Good handwashing early in life may help improve child development in some settings.
Estimated global rates of handwashing after using the toilet are only 19%.
Handwashing helps battle the rise in antibiotic resistance Preventing sickness reduces the amount of antibiotics people use and the likelihood that antibiotic resistance will develop.
Handwashing can prevent about 30% of diarrhea-related sicknesses and about 20% of respiratory infections (e.g., colds).
Antibiotics often are prescribed unnecessarily for these health issues.
Reducing the number of these infections by washing hands frequently helps prevent the overuse of antibiotics—the single most important factor leading to antibiotic resistance around the world.
Handwashing can also prevent people from getting sick with germs that are already resistant to antibiotics and that can be difficult to treat.
Wet your hands with clean, running water (warm or cold), turn off the tap, and apply soap Why?
Because hands could become re-contaminated if placed in a basin of standing water that has been contaminated through previous use, clean running water should be used.
However, washing with non-potable water when necessary may still improve health.
The temperature of the water does not appear to affect germ removal; however, warmer water may cause more skin irritation and is more environmentally costly.
Turning off the faucet after wetting hands saves water, and there are few data to prove whether significant numbers of germs are transferred between hands and the faucet.
Using soap to wash hands is more effective than using water alone because the surfactants in soap lift soil and microbes from skin, and people tend to scrub hands more thoroughly when using soap, which further removes germs.
To date, studies have shown that there is no added health benefit for consumers (this does not include professionals in the healthcare setting) using soaps containing antibacterial ingredients compared with using plain soap.
As a result, FDA issued a final rule in September 2016 that 19 ingredients in common "antibacterial" soaps, including triclosan, were no more effective than non-antibacterial soap and water and thus these products are no longer able to be marketed to the general public.
This rule does not affect hand sanitizers, wipes, or antibacterial products used in healthcare settings.
Lather your hands by rubbing them together with the soap.
Be sure to lather the backs of your hands, between your fingers, and under your nails.
Lathering and scrubbing hands creates friction, which helps lift dirt, grease, and microbes from skin.
Microbes are present on all surfaces of the hand, often in particularly high concentration under the nails, so the entire hand should be scrubbed.
Scrubbing your hands for at least 20 seconds removes more germs from hands than washing for shorter periods Why?
Determining the optimal length of time for handwashing is difficult because few studies about the health impacts of altering handwashing times have been done.
Of those that exist, nearly all have measured reductions in overall numbers of microbes, only a small proportion of which can cause illness, and have not measured impacts on health.
Solely reducing numbers of microbes on hands is not necessarily linked to better health.
The optimal length of time for handwashing is also likely to depend on many factors, including the type and amount of soil on the hands and the setting of the person washing hands.
For example, surgeons are likely to come into contact with disease-causing germs and risk spreading serious infections to vulnerable patients, so they may need to wash hands longer than someone preparing their own lunch at home.
Nonetheless, evidence suggests that washing hands for about 15-30 seconds removes more germs from hands than washing for shorter periods.
Accordingly, many countries and global organizations have adopted recommendations to wash hands for about 20 seconds (some recommend an additional 20-30 seconds for drying): The Benefits of Hand Washing New Zealand.
Step-by-Step Guide to Hand Washing The Global Handwashing Partnership.
Why Handwashing?
World Health Organization.
Guidelines on Hygiene in Health Care: A Summary Rinsing your hands well under clean, running water helps remove soap Why?
Soap and friction help lift dirt, grease, and microbes—including disease-causing germs—from skin so they can then be rinsed off of hands.
Rinsing the soap away also minimizes skin irritation.
Because hands could become re-contaminated if rinsed in a basin of standing water that has been contaminated through previous use, clean running water should be used.
While some recommendations include using a paper towel to turn off the faucet after hands have been rinsed, this practice leads to increased use of water and paper towels, and there are no studies to show that it improves health.
Your hands should be as dry as possible after handwashing Why?
Germs can be transferred more easily to and from wet hands; therefore, hands should be dried after washing.
However, the best way to dry hands remains unclear because few studies about hand drying exist, and the results of these studies conflict.
Additionally, most of these studies compare overall concentrations of microbes, not just disease-causing germs, on hands following different hand-drying methods.
Nonetheless, studies suggest that using a clean towel or air-drying hands are best.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Clean Hands Having clean hands is one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and prevent the spread of germs to others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Signs and Symptoms of Bird Flu in People DEC.
20, 2024 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Most human cases of bird flu, caused by avian influenza A(H5) virus, in the United States have been mild, so far, and most were in people who had known exposure to sick or infected animals.
The severity of illness associated with bird flu has ranged from mild to severe, including death.
The reported signs and symptoms of bird flu in humans have varied.
Eye redness has been the predominant symptom among recent U.S.
cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection.
Respiratory symptoms and fever were also reported.
The possibility of human infections with avian influenza virus that result in severe illness remains and underscores the importance of ongoing prevention and surveillance efforts.
cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection.
Less common symptoms include diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting.
*Fever may not always be present Signs and symptoms of moderate to severe disease Signs and symptoms of moderate to severe disease from bird flu in people may include: high fever or other symptoms listed above that limit or prevent usual activity shortness of breath or difficulty breathing altered consciousness seizures Complications Complications of bird flu can include but are not limited to: pneumonia, respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute kidney injury multi-organ failure (respiratory and kidney failure), sepsis, septic shock and inflammation of the brain (meningoencephalitis) Timing Onset of Symptoms The time from when a person is exposed and infected with avian influenza A(H5) viruses to when respiratory symptoms begin is about three days but can range from about 2 to 7 days.
However, eye symptoms such as redness and irritation can occur one to two days after exposure and infection with an avian influenza A(H5) virus.
Period when people are contagious The period of contagiousness for person with mild illness due to bird flu is not well understood but thought to be similar to seasonal flu.
People are thought to be most contagious during the first few days of their illness.
People with severe disease (e.g., pneumonia) requiring hospitalization may have high levels of virus in the lower respiratory tract and may be contagious for several weeks.
How long bird flu illness lasts Bird flu usually lasts a few days to less than two weeks, but how long symptoms last can vary by person.
People who are severely ill (for example, intubated for severe pneumonia and respiratory failure) may be sick for several weeks.
When there are no symptoms Some people who have had bird flu in the United States have reported no symptoms.
It is not currently known how common this is.
People who do not have symptoms can still be contagious to others.
ON THIS PAGE Mild symptoms Signs and symptoms of moderate to severe disease Complications Timing When there are no symptoms SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) SEARCH Divisions and Offices About Us Chronic Disease Interventions Leadership Budget and Funding Our Impact Social Media Resources VIEW ALL About Us How we support healthy behaviors and preventive medical care at every stage of life.
Learn More Divisions and Offices The work, priorities, and impact of NCCDPHP's nine divisions Health and Economic Benefits of Chronic Disease Interventions Chronic disease interventions can reduce health care costs and lost productivity.
Interventions that work Our Impact on Chronic Diseases and Risk Behaviors Improvements in chronic disease indicators Learn More Featured About Chronic Diseases The most common chronic diseases in America, risk factors, and why some groups are more affected.
Fast Facts: Health and Economic Costs of Chronic Conditions The economic impact of chronic diseases in terms of health care costs and lost productivity Chronic Disease Data and Surveillance Data about chronic diseases and leading health indicators.
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) CDC's work to prevent chronic diseases across the lifespan and help people manage their chronic diseases to prevent complications.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) SEARCH Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research VIEW ALL About the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases NCEZID works to prevent, detect, and respond to emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases.
Our Topics NCEZID's work covers diseases from A to Z - anthrax to Zika.
Learn about our center's topics.
NCEZID Leadership NCEZID Divisions and Offices Our Priorities Our Partners Featured Careers Learn about career opportunities at NCEZID.
Grants and Funding Find funding opportunities from NCEZID.
Additional Resources Laws and Regulations Data and Research NCEZID Organizational Chart NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Antimicrobial Resistance EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Antimicrobial Resistance How It Spreads Prevention Facts and Stats 2019 Antibiotic Resistance Threats Report Print Materials & Fact Sheets Feature Stories AR Solutions Initiative VIEW ALL Public Health CDC and FDA Antimicrobial Resistance Isolate Bank Laboratory Assessment of Antibiotic Resistance Testing Capacity Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: Antimicrobial Resistance Laboratory Network | Transatlantic Taskforce on Antimicrobial Resistance (TATFAR) View All About Antimicrobial Resistance JAN.
31, 2025 KEY POINTS Antimicrobial resistance (AR) happens when germs develop the ability to defeat the drugs designed to kill them.
AR has the potential to affect people at any stage of life, as well as the healthcare, veterinary, and agriculture industries.
This makes it one of the world's most urgent public health problems.
Overview AR happens when germs like bacteria and fungi develop the ability to defeat the drugs designed to kill them.
That means the germs are not killed and continue to grow.
Resistant infections can be difficult, and sometimes impossible, to treat.
Urgent global threat Antimicrobial resistance is an urgent global public health threat, killing at least 1.27 million people worldwide and associated with nearly 5 million deaths in 2019.
Did you know?
In the United States (U.S.), more than 2.8 million antimicrobial-resistant infections occur each year.
More than 35,000 people die as a result, according to CDC's 2019 Antibiotic Resistance (AR) Threats Report.
When Clostridioides difficile—a germ (bacterium) that is not typically resistant to antibiotics but can cause deadly diarrhea and inflammation of the colon and is associated with antimicrobial use—is added to these, the U.S.
toll of all the threats in the report exceeds 3 million infections and 48,000 deaths.
Bacteria and fungi do not have to be resistant to every antibiotic or antifungal to be dangerous.
Resistance to even one antibiotic or antifungal drug can mean serious problems.
For example: Antimicrobial-resistant infections that require the use of second- and third-line treatments can harm patients by causing serious side effects, such as organ failure and prolong care and recovery, sometimes for months.
Many medical advances are dependent on the ability to fight infections using antibiotics, including joint replacements, organ transplants, cancer therapy and the treatment of chronic diseases like diabetes, asthma, and rheumatoid arthritis.
In some cases, antimicrobial-resistant infections have no treatment options.
If antibiotics and antifungals lose their effectiveness, then we lose the ability to treat infections and control these public health threats.
Terms to know Germs are microbes—very small living organisms including bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses.
Pathogens are germs that cause infections.
Most germs are harmless and even helpful to people.
Bacteria cause infections such as strep throat, foodborne illnesses, and other serious infections.
Fungi cause infections like athlete's foot, yeast infections, and other serious infections.
Antibiotics are medicines that fight infections caused by bacteria in humans and animals by either killing the bacteria or making it difficult for the bacteria to grow and multiply.
Antifungals are medicines that treat fungal infections by killing or stopping the growth of dangerous fungi in humans, animals or plants.
People sometimes use "antibiotic" and "antimicrobial" interchangeably.
How antimicrobial resistance happens AR is a naturally occurring process.
However, increases in antimicrobial resistance are driven by a combination of germs exposed to antibiotics and antifungals, and the spread of those germs and their resistance mechanisms.
How antibiotic and antifungal use affects antimicrobial resistance Antibiotics and antifungals kill some germs that cause infections, but they also kill helpful germs that protect our body from infection.
Antimicrobial resistance accelerates when antibiotics and antifungals pressure bacteria and fungi to adapt.
The antimicrobial-resistant germs survive, multiply and spread to other germs.
These surviving germs have resistance traits in their DNA that can spread to other germs.
Spread of germs and resistance mechanisms To survive, germs can develop defense strategies against antibiotics and antifungals called resistance mechanisms.
DNA tells the germ how to make specific proteins, which determine the germ's resistance mechanisms.
Bacteria and fungi can carry genes for many types of resistance.
Alarmingly, antimicrobial-resistant germs can share their resistance mechanisms with other germs that have not been exposed to antibiotics or antifungals.
This table gives a few examples of defense strategies used to resist the effects of antibiotics or antifungals.
Spread of germs and resistance mechanisms Resistance Mechanisms Description Restrict access of the antibiotic Germs restrict access by changing the entryways or limiting the number of entryways.
Example: Gram-negative bacteria have an outer layer (membrane) that protects them from their environment.
These bacteria can use this membrane to selectively keep antibiotic drugs from entering.
Get rid of the antibiotic or antifungal Germs get rid of antibiotics using pumps in their cell walls to remove antibiotic drugs that enter the cell.
Example: Some Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria can produce pumps to get rid of several different important antibiotic drugs, including fluoroquinolones, beta-lactams, chloramphenicol, and trimethoprim.
Example: Some Candida species produce pumps that get rid of azoles such as fluconazole.
Change or destroy the antibiotic Germs change or destroy the antibiotics with enzymes, proteins that break down the drug.
Example: Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteria produce enzymes called carbapenemases, which break down carbapenem drugs and most other beta-lactam drugs.
Change the targets for the antibiotic or antifungal Many antibiotic drugs are designed to single out and destroy specific parts (or targets) of a bacterium.
Germs change the antibiotic’s target so the drug can no longer fit and do its job.
Example: Escherichia coli bacteria with the mcr-1 gene can add a compound to the outside of the cell wall so that the drug colistin cannot latch onto it.
Example: Aspergillus fumigatus changes the cyp1A gene so that triazoles cannot bind to the protein.
Bypass the effects of the antibiotic Germs develop new cell processes that avoid using the antibiotic’s target.
Example: Some Staphylococcus aureus bacteria can bypass the drug effects of trimethoprim.
5 things to know Antimicrobial resistance occurs when germs defeat the antibiotic or antifungal drugs designed to kill them.
It does NOT mean your body is resistant to antibiotics or antifungals.
Antimicrobial resistance can affect people at any stage of life.
Infections caused by resistant germs are difficult—sometimes impossible—to treat.
In many cases, these infections require extended hospital stays, additional follow-up doctor visits and treatments that may be costly and potentially toxic.
Healthy habits can protect you from infections and help stop germs from spreading.
Talk to your healthcare provider or veterinarian about whether antibiotics or antifungals are needed.
Antibiotics and antifungals do not work on viruses, such as colds and the flu.
These drugs save lives but can lead to side effects and antimicrobial resistance.
If you have been taking these drugs, tell your doctor if you have three or more diarrhea episodes in 24 hours.
Tell your healthcare provider if you recently traveled to or received care in another country.
Antimicrobial resistance has been found in all regions of the world.
Modern trade and travel mean it can move easily across borders and can spread in places like hospitals, farms, the community and the environment.
Antibiotic Resistance: 5 Things To Know AR is a global public health threat.
Here's 5 things to know about this One Health issue.
JUNE 5, 2024 Download Impacts Antimicrobial resistance is one of the world's most urgent public health problems because it: Can affect people at any stage of life.
Affects healthcare, veterinary, and agriculture industries.
Can make all antibiotics or antifungals ineffective, resulting in unstoppable infections.
Stopping the spread of antimicrobial resistance is crucial.
What can you do Prevent infections in the first place.
Improve antibiotic and antifungal use to slow the development of resistance.
Stop the spread of antimicrobial resistance when it does develop.
We all have a role to play, from travelers, animal owners and care givers to patients and healthcare providers.
Resources How Antimicrobial Resistance Spreads Once AR emerges, it can spread into new settings and between countries.
JUNE 15, 2025 Download How Germs Fight Back Against Antibiotics and Antifungals Learn how bacteria and fungi fight back against antibiotics and antifungals.
24, 2024 Download How Antibiotic Resistance Moves Directly Germ to Germ Resistance traits can be inherited and can pass directly from germ to germ by way of mobile genetic...
MAY 31, 2024 Download Germs Develop Antibiotic Resistance Over Time Since the discovery of penicillin, germs have continued to develop new types of resistance.
25, 2024 Download ON THIS PAGE Overview Terms to know How antimicrobial resistance happens 5 things to know Impacts What can you do Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Antimicrobial Resistance Antimicrobial resistance happens when germs like bacteria and fungi can defeat the drugs designed to kill them.
Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Sign in New User Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Public Health Media Library A-Z Topic Index Contact Us For-non technical or general public health questions, contact CDC-INFO by phone: 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) or by email.
Send us a message.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases SEARCH NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL About NCIRD Find out more about NCIRD's mission, goals, and activities.
Learn More NCIRD Divisions and Offices Learn more about NCIRD's organizational structure and divisions within NCIRD.
NCIRD 2024 Year in Review Read about a few major accomplishments, highlighted in our review of NCIRD in 2024.
Immunization Highlights Learn how vaccines prevent disease and save lives.
The Latest from NCIRD Bulletin Updates on respiratory illness and vaccine-preventable diseases Investigations Investigating the occurrence of an elevated number of cases of an illness is a multistep process.
NCIRD Surveillance Systems NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities Vaccines & Immunizations NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Chronic Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Preventing Chronic Diseases: What You Can Do Now Living with a Chronic Condition Chronic Disease Data Fast Facts VIEW ALL Public Health Resources for Community Health Workers VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) View All Chronic Disease Data and Surveillance MAY 15, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion collects data on chronic diseases and leading health indicators through a variety of surveillance systems.
General and specific chronic disease surveillance systems are listed below.
Chronic diseases and risk behaviors Open Data Portal The Chronic Disease Indicators interactive application and data portal allow anyone free access to data that can be used to describe the burden of chronic diseases and risk factors, identify research gaps, monitor population trends, and evaluate programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone FEBRUARY 3, 2025 NCEZID Resources WHAT TO KNOW NCEZID scientists have developed tools and resources for public health modeling, behavioral and social science studies, and more.
Find resources related to our center below.
Links Guide to Adapting and Using Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices (KAP) Surveys for Public Health Emergencies A free guide for developing linguistically and culturally appropriate community surveys.
3, 2025 Download CDC Tool for Thematic Analysis CDC's free tool for analyzing text data FEB.
3, 2025 Download Public Health Models and Tools Explore public health models and tools developed by NCEZID.
11, 2024 Grants and Funding Find funding opportunities from NCEZID.
14, 2024 NCEZID Strategic Plan The strategic plan for the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, 2018-2025.
JUNE 20, 2024 NCEZID Global Health Priorities Learn about NCEZID's global health priorities for 2023-2026.
15, 2025 Download SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC-INFO EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Our Service Email CDC-INFO VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 17, 2024 ESPAÑOL Email CDC-INFO WHAT TO KNOW Call 911 if you are experiencing an emergency.
Emailed questions may better serve health professionals in need of detailed CDC assistance.
Many answers to general questions are found on the CDC website.
It can take up to 10 business days to receive a reply.
For timely assistance, please call 800-232-4636.
Email Form * Required field From* Please select one Select an audience Clinician Media Educator General Public Email* Please do not provide an email address that blocks or restricts CDC-INFO from responding.
Re-enter your Email Address (for validation)* Question* Please do not include your Social Security number or other sensitive information.
SubmitClear Form This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Note: CDC-INFO does not diagnose illness, provide treatment, or prescribe medication.
If you need medical advice, please consult with your doctor or a healthcare professional.
The information you provide will be used to respond to your inquiry.
See CDC's Privacy Policy.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC-INFO CDC-INFO offers live agent services to help you find the latest and reliable science-based health information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Search CDC.gov & Generative Artificial Intelligence Print CDC sometimes uses GenAI (generative artificial intelligence) to help create content for the public.
This may include content for the web, social media, fact sheets, and graphics.
In every case, our experts review our communication materials in an effort to ensure accuracy and quality before use.
CDC public health research, data, and recommendations are based on the best science currently available and go through a separate agency review process prior to release.
Last Reviewed: October 1, 2024 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home Using CDC.gov Accessibility About CDC.gov plus icon Policies and Regulations plus icon CDC Nondiscrimination notice Enterprise Risk Management Guidelines for Public Comments Language Assistance Linking to CDC.gov Phone Scams and Phishing Attacks Plain Writing Privacy Policy plus icon Use of Agency Materials Website Disclaimers CDC.gov & Generative Artificial Intelligence Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Workplace Health Promotion EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Benefits of a Workplace Health Program Survey Dashboard Data and Documentation CDC Worksite Health ScoreCard CDC Work@Health Program Training CDC Work@Health Program Curricula VIEW ALL View All JULY 15, 2024 Workplace Health Survey Data and Documentation KEY POINTS Survey data and documentation for the 2017 Workplace Health in America survey are available for access.
The documentation provides technical and statistical information regarding the Workplace Health in America survey.
Find information such as sample information, survey questionnaire, and more.
Overview Public use data files include de-identified data from all worksites included in the final sample.
There is also a guidance document and codebook for using the public use data files.
What is contained in each file version of the survey?
Worksite size.
Industry group and region.
All survey question responses.
Weighting and variance estimation variables.
Explore more Expand All 2017 Survey data information Data files ON THIS PAGE Overview Explore more SOURCES PRINT SHARE Workplace Health The use of effective workplace programs and policies can reduce health risks and improve the quality of life for American workers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 11, 2024 Public Health Models and Tools WHAT TO KNOW NCEZID has developed and published tools to give public health decision makers actionable data during routine public health work and emergencies.
The tools below are available for download, either on CDC’s website or as supplemental materials to publications.
Biological Threat Planning and Response Tools Maxi-Vac: Informs planning for large-scale smallpox vaccination clinics with maximum patient flow-through.
Anthrax Assist: Projects hospitalizations and casualties from a newly detected inhalation anthrax event and evaluates the impact of a population-wide campaign to provide antibiotic prophylaxis.
Beds for Ebola Disease (BED): Estimates the number of specialized beds for treating Ebola patients in the United States as a result of an outbreak abroad.
EbolaResponse: Estimates the future number of Ebola cases.
MedCon:Pre-Event: Estimates the baseline medical care requirements (per 100,000 unit of population) following a disaster due to terrorism or natural phenomenon.
Pandemic Planning and Response Increased Demand for Staff, Services, and Supplies COVID-19 Surge: Enables hospital administrators and public health officials to estimate the surge in demand for hospital-based services during the COVID-19 pandemic.
COVIDTracer and COVIDTracer Advanced: Allows users to estimate the resources needed for and model the impact of contact tracing activities in terms of the numbers of COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations averted.
COVID-Vac: Helps managers of large-scale COVID-19 vaccination clinics to set up clinics and maximize the triaging of patients.
FluAid 2.0: Assists state and local level planners to prepare for the next influenza pandemic.
FluSurge 2.0: Helps hospital administrators and public health officials estimate the surge in demand for hospital-based services during the next influenza pandemic.
FluLabSurge 1.0: Assists laboratory directors with forecasting demand for specimen testing during an influenza pandemic and developing response plans.
Demand for Respirators and Surgical Masks During Influenza Pandemic in the United States : Informs planning for an influenza pandemic by estimating U.S.
demand for N95 filtering respirators (respirators) by healthcare and emergency services personnel and the need for surgical masks by pandemic patients seeking care.
Influenza AH7N9 Models in Response to a Potential Public Health Emergency : Presents five models assessing the potential demand for mechanical ventilators, respirators and surgical masks, influenza anti-viral drugs, and the potential impacts of a vaccination program and school closures to prepare for a potential AH7N9 influenza pandemic.
Vaccination Planning Community Flu: Simulates the spread of influenza through a model community and the impact of a variety of potential interventions.
FluWork Loss 1.0: Estimates the potential number of days lost from work due to an influenza pandemic.
Influenza School Closure : Examines the effect caused by school closures using different contact matrices.
Vaccination Planning and Evaluation RabiesEcon : Assists planning large-scale dog rabies vaccination programs.
Public health impact of including two lineages of influenza B in a quadrivalent seasonal influenza vaccine : Estimates the public health impact on influenza-related health outcomes over 10 influenza seasons of producing and using a quadrivalent influenza vaccine (QIV).
Assessing the Cost-Effectiveness of Microneedle Patches in Childhood Measles Vaccination Programs- Excel Supplement : Computes the vaccination costs for using microneedle patch and syringe-and-needle technologies.
RSV Immunization Impact Model : Compares the impact of multiple immunization products and strategies on medically-attended lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) in infants across various healthcare settings.
Tools to Assess Public Health Surveillance and Interventions Dental Caries Among Alaska Native Children in the YK Region : Evaluates the economic costs and benefits of dental interventions used to reduce dental caries among Alaskan Native children in the YK Delta Region from the dental payer perspective.
Cost effectiveness of age-based targeted West Nile virus vaccine : Estimates costs and health outcomes of vaccination with West Nile virus vaccine compared to no vaccination among seven cohorts, spaced at 10-year intervals from ages 10 to 70 years, each followed until 90 years old.
Economic evaluation of preventive malaria treatment to contacts of Ebola patients in the context of the West Africa 2014 Ebola response : Analyzes the cost (in terms of treatment administration and averted hospitalization costs) and benefits (in terms of averted Ebola Treatment Unit admissions) of providing presumptive antimalarial treatment to contacts of suspected Ebola patients from a responder perspective.
Shigellosis Tool: Estimates the number of days a child with shigellosis will be excluded from childcare, and the likelihood the child will be readmitted while infectious.
Public Health Laboratory Impact Tool: Estimates a public health laboratory's contribution to and impact on Salmonella diagnostic testing.
SurvCost: Aids public health officials with estimating the cost of Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response (IDSR) systems at different jurisdictions levels and to better understand the resources required to operate IDSR systems.
ON THIS PAGE Biological Threat Planning and Response Tools Pandemic Planning and Response Vaccination Planning and Evaluation Tools to Assess Public Health Surveillance and Interventions RELATED PAGES Data and Research Behavioral Sciences Funding Strategic Plan Our Impact VIEW ALL NCEZID Strategic Plan SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All Social, Behavioral, and Evaluation Sciences APR.
8, 2024 KEY POINTS Social, behavioral, and evaluation sciences help us understand the role of human behavior, public opinion, and social and cultural factors in infectious disease spread.
NCEZID experts provide divisions with tools and strategies for rapidly collecting high-quality data on public attitudes and behaviors.
Experts apply behavioral science and community engagement strategies to strengthen response to outbreaks; evaluate program effectiveness and impact; and build skills across CDC and with partners.
Background Social and behavioral scientists work to understand people's behavior during epidemics and how they feel about recommended protective measures.
They also study how people protect themselves against everyday disease threats spread through food, water, or close contact with others.
In addition, these scientists study how where you live and what groups you are part of affects your health.
This knowledge is then used to develop infection control and prevention programs.
Once these programs are in place, evaluators help program staff gather information about what needs improvement.
How we use social, behavioral, and evaluation sciences Social, behavioral, and evaluation sciences can help us better understand public perceptions of health behaviors like masking.
NCEZID social scientists and evaluators support a wide range of efforts, including epidemic response.
They work across the center, collaborating with infectious disease specialists to Help scientists incorporate measures of human behavior, public perceptions, and social context into studies of infectious diseases Help programs identify social and cultural factors relevant to populations at high risk for infectious diseases to enhance program effectiveness Evaluate programs and initiatives across the center and train program evaluators Conduct analyses that increase knowledge about the efficacy of health promotion efforts Develop tools and techniques for collection of community data and train users within both CDC and community agencies Support the center's global health security work by building the behavioral and social science capacity of international partners Free tools for analyzing community views CDC Tool for Thematic Analysis A free Excel tool for analyzing community comments and feedback during a health emergency, or analyzing any kind of text data (notes, transcripts, social media posts, etc.) using a pre-programed text coding scheme or creating your own.
The tool provides step-by-step instructions for building themes from coded text, providing a deep analysis of a text's meaning that can be used for planning community programs.
KEEP READING CDC Tool for Thematic Analysis Guide to Adapting and Using Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices (KAP) Surveys for Public Health Emergencies This guide shows you how to adapt, locally pilot test, plan, and implement a community survey that is linguistically and culturally appropriate.
The guide provides two example surveys that were developed in eastern Africa about Ebola-related knowledge, attitude and practices.
The guide provides instruction both on how to use the Ebola surveys, and how to create and pilot test your own surveys that appropriate to your context.
Once you have a survey that is ready to use, the guide reviews how to collect, store, analyze and present your findings, all using free tools and software.
KEEP READING Guide to Adapting and Using Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices (KAP) Surveys for Public Health Emergencies Impact NCEZID's KAP surveys have been used in eastern Africa for Ebola.
NCEZID has used social and behavioral science to improve public health interventions for numerous public health emergency responses, including: Examining mask-wearing behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic1234 Conducting surveys to understand public perceptions about monkeypox transmission and prevention during the 2022 U.S.
monkeypox outbreak Collecting and analyzing community feedback data during the 2018-2020 Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo5 Evaluating community interventions to stop Zika transmission among pregnant women in Puerto Rico and the U.S Virgin Islands during the 2015 Zika outbreak678789 Evaluating the Check And Report Ebola (CARE+) Program during the 2014 West Africa Ebola response9 ON THIS PAGE Background How we use social, behavioral, and evaluation sciences Free tools for analyzing community views Impact SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Search About CDC’s Emails Subscription Service Print On This Page Help with CDC’s Email Service Other Questions for CDC CDC is happy to offer a free email subscription service, which makes it easier for you to learn more about different topics including COVID-19, Flu, HIV, Zika and more.
With an email subscription profile, you will receive updated information on items of interest to you.
Message frequency varies and re-occurring messages will be sent from most topics.
Subscribe Now User Privacy CDC uses Adobe Campaign to send emails and notices to subscribers.
To subscribe to CDC products by email, you must provide a valid email address and indicate your subscription preferences, including the items you want to receive.
Only the CDC managers who send newsletters or notices via Adobe Campaign and the staff members who monitor the results of email initiatives have access to the subscriber lists.
CDC and Adobe Campaign never allow access to the subscriber lists to anyone outside of CDC for any purpose.
Help with CDC’s Email Service If you need assistance with CDC’s email service, please contact subscriptions@cdc.gov or call CDC at 1-800-232-4636.
Other Questions for CDC Email: Email CDC-INFO Call: 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636), TTY: 888-232-6348.
Top of Page Last Reviewed: May 27, 2021 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home Using CDC.gov Accessibility About CDC.gov plus icon CDC Web Archive CDC Email Updates plus icon Featured Newsletters Frequently Asked Questions Manage Subscriptions Subscribe to Newsletters Policies and Regulations plus icon Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Factors Associated with Cloth Face Covering Use Among Adults During the COVID-19 Pandemic — United States, April and May 2020 Weekly / July 17, 2020 / 69(28);933-937 Print On July 14, 2020, this report was posted online as an MMWR Early Release.
Fisher, PhD1; John P.
Barile, PhD2,3; Rebecca J.
Guerin, PhD3; Kayla L.
Vanden Esschert, MPH1; Alexiss Jeffers, MPH4,5; Lin H.
Tian, MD6; Amanda Garcia-Williams, PhD1; Brian Gurbaxani, PhD1; William W.
Thompson, PhD5; Christine E.
Prue, PhD7 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
On April 3, 2020, the White House Coronavirus Task Force and CDC recommended that persons wear a cloth face covering in public to slow the spread of COVID-19.
What is added by this report?
After the initial recommendation was released, high rates of cloth face covering use were reported in the United States.
An increase in the rate of cloth face covering use was observed from April to May and was sustained, particularly among non-Hispanic blacks and other races, Hispanics, persons aged ≤39 years, and persons living in the Northeast.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Public health messages should target audiences not wearing cloth face coverings and reinforce positive attitudes, perceived norms, personal agency, and physical and health benefits of obtaining and wearing cloth face coverings consistently and correctly.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (38) Blogs (7) Policy documents (2) X (432) Facebook (5) Wikipedia (2) Reddit (1) Mendeley (202) Citations: 88 Views: 81,081 Views equals page views plus PDF downloads Metric Details Tables Table 1 Table 2 Related Materials Time for universal masking and prevention of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 MMWR Article PDF On April 3, 2020, the White House Coronavirus Task Force and CDC announced a new behavioral recommendation to help slow the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) by encouraging the use of a cloth face covering when out in public (1).
Widespread use of cloth face coverings has not been studied among the U.S.
population, and therefore, little is known about encouraging the public to adopt this behavior.
Immediately following the recommendation, an Internet survey sampled 503 adults during April 7–9 to assess their use of cloth face coverings and the behavioral and sociodemographic factors that might influence adherence to this recommendation.
The same survey was administered 1 month later, during May 11–13, to another sample of 502 adults to assess changes in the prevalence estimates of use of cloth face coverings from April to May.
Within days of the release of the first national recommendation for use of cloth face coverings, a majority of persons who reported leaving their home in the previous week reported using a cloth face covering (61.9%).
Prevalence of use increased to 76.4% 1 month later, primarily associated with increases in use among non-Hispanic white persons (54.3% to 75.1%), persons aged ≥65 years (36.6% to 79.2%), and persons residing in the Midwest (43.7% to 73.8%).
High rates were observed in April and by May, increased further among non-Hispanic black persons (74.4% to 82.3%), Hispanic or Latino persons (77.3% to 76.2%), non-Hispanic persons of other race (70.8% to 77.3%), persons aged 18–29 years (70.1% to 74.9%) and 30–39 years (73.9% to 84.4%), and persons residing in the Northeast (76.9% to 87.0%).
The use of a cloth face covering was associated with theory-derived constructs that indicate a favorable attitude toward them, intention to use them, ability to use them, social support for using them, and beliefs that they offered protection for self, others, and the community.
Research is needed to understand possible barriers to using cloth face coverings and ways to promote their consistent and correct use among those who have yet to adopt this behavior.
Survey questions were administered by Porter Novelli Public Services (PN) and ENGINE Insights through PN View 360,* a rapid turnaround survey that can be used to provide insights into behaviors of the public.
During April 7–9, 2020, PN administered an Internet survey via an opt-in process to a sample of 503 U.S.
adults aged ≥18 years using the Lucid platform (2); panel members who had not taken a survey in the previous 20 waves of survey administration were eligible to participate.
The survey was administered again during May 11–13, 2020, to a separate sample of 502 adults.
Quota sampling and statistical weighting were employed to make the panel representative of the U.S.
population by sex, age, region, race/ethnicity, and education.
Respondents were informed that their answers were being used for market research and they could refuse to answer any question at any time.
No personally identifying information was included in the data file provided to CDC.† Data were obtained from 1,005 total participants, with the analysis focusing on the 839 participants who reported leaving their homes in the past week and therefore had an opportunity to wear a cloth face covering in public.
Sensitivity analyses suggested that the composition of the samples of those who did and did not leave the home was comparable across points in time.
Participants were asked about their frequency of going out in public during the preceding week.
Standard demographic questions were included to examine age, sex, race/ethnicity, U.S.
Census region, current employment status, income level, home ownership status, and education level.
Items reflecting theoretical constructs from well-established health behavior theories and models were included (3).
Questions were asked to assess attitude toward the use of cloth face coverings, behavioral intention to use a cloth face covering, personal agency (i.e., ease and ability) around cloth face covering use, perceived susceptibility to infection with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-19), perceived norms of cloth face covering use, and outcome expectations of wearing a cloth face covering.
The survey asked about sources of information for use of cloth face coverings (e.g., health care providers, e-mail messages, and magazines).
Items were measured using five-point Likert-type scales ranging from 1 (never, not at all, not important, or strongly disagree) to 5 (always, completely, very important, or strongly agree) and binary scales (no or unchecked and yes or checked).
Likert-type response items were dichotomized to assess agreement (strongly agree and agree versus neutral, disagree, and strongly disagree).
The outcome variable of interest was use of a cloth face covering, which was determined by the question “In the past week, when you have gone outside of your home for work, grocery shopping, or other activities that involved interacting with other people, how often did you wear a cloth face covering that covered your nose and mouth?” Cloth face covering use was defined by a response of always, often, or sometimes to this question.
Participants were provided instructions that described the difference between a cloth face covering and paper disposable masks, surgical masks, dust masks, or other respirators.§ All weighted bivariate and regression analyses were conducted using SAS software (version 9.4; SAS Institute).
Among the participants who left their home in the past 7 days, 61.9% reported using a cloth face covering in April, and this percentage increased to 76.4% in May (Table 1).
Higher prevalence estimates of cloth face covering use were reported in May compared with April in all sociodemographic groups; the largest differences were reported among non-Hispanic white persons (54.3% to 75.1%), persons aged ≥65 years (36.6% to 79.2%), and persons residing in the Midwest (43.7% to 73.8%).
High rates were observed in April and by May, increased further among black persons (74.4% to 82.3%), Hispanic or Latino persons (77.3% to 76.2%), non-Hispanic persons of other race (70.8% to 77.3%), persons aged 18–29 years (70.1% to 74.9%) and 30–39 years (73.9% to 84.4%), and persons residing in the Northeast (76.9% to 87.0%).
Measures of well-established theoretical antecedents of behavior were associated with cloth face covering use overall (Table 2).
The prevalence estimates of positive attitude toward behavior (range = 77.9%–81.8%), behavioral intention (84.2%–85.3%), personal agency (78.0%–83.4%), perceived norms (81.5%–81.9%), and outcome expectations (74.4%–77.4%) were associated with cloth face covering use, after adjusting for age, sex, race/ethnicity, and region, and did not change significantly from April to May.
Agreement with perceived susceptibility of becoming infected with SARS-CoV-2 among those who wore a cloth face covering in the past week was 81.8%.
Persons who reported using cloth face coverings received information about cloth face coverings from a variety of sources.
Among those who wore cloth face coverings in the previous week, the most common sources reported were newspapers (83.1%), health care providers (80.8%), and the radio (80.2%).
No significant differences across information sources were found between April and May 2020.
Top Discussion Days after announcing a new behavioral recommendation on April 3, adults in the United States quickly adopted the practice of using cloth face coverings, and a higher prevalence of use was reported 1 month later, in May 2020.
From April to May, the prevalence of reported use of cloth face coverings was higher in all sociodemographic groups in the population, especially among non-Hispanic white persons, persons aged ≥65 years, and persons residing in the Midwest, suggesting widespread acceptance of this recommendation.
The increase in cloth face covering use continued to be reported as more persons began leaving their homes and going out in public more frequently from April to May.
These findings are consistent with those of other organizations assessing cloth face covering use following the announcement of this recommendation ¶,**,††,§§,¶¶,***,††† (4).
Public health authorities, including CDC, have asked persons living in the United States to engage in behaviors that are intended to reduce the risk for SARS-CoV-2 infection and slow the spread of COVID-19 (1).
Use of cloth face coverings continues to be a recommendation ( while long-term prevention measures such as vaccines are being developed.
The recommendation to use cloth face coverings was based on evidence suggesting that persons with COVID-19 can transmit the SARS-Cov-2 virus to others before they develop symptoms or have an asymptomatic infection (5,6).
At the time of the initial recommendation, there were shortages of masks used by health care professionals and first responders (e.g., surgical masks and N95 respirators), so CDC stressed the use of cloth face coverings by the public.
Over time, medical and nonmedical masks have become more available to health care workers and to the public.
Continuing to track the sociodemographic differences and behavioral influences of use of cloth face coverings and other face masks over time is important as communities continue to monitor cases, hospitalizations, and deaths and enhance prevention strategies.
Public health authorities should continue to communicate clearly the importance of cloth face covering use, especially as evidence emerges about the effectiveness of different types of face coverings and masks for offering protection from infection to self, others, and the community (7,8).
In addition, more research is needed among persons who do not wear cloth face coverings to understand barriers to their use.
The findings in this report are subject to at least five limitations.
First, the cross-sectional opt-in survey design precludes the ability to make causal inferences about how sociodemographic and behavioral measures directly affect cloth face covering use.
Internet surveys can vary in their quality and methodology (9); however, emerging research also identified similar rates of cloth face coverings in May using an independent Internet sample (4).
Second, items developed for the survey have not been used previously to assess use of cloth face coverings and require further study.
Third, the use of masks that are not cloth face coverings (e.g., paper disposable masks, surgical masks, dust masks, or other respirators) was not assessed in this analysis.
Fourth, the data were self-reported and might be subject to social desirability bias.
Finally, this survey did not explore historical, religious, political, or cultural factors, or local mandates that might affect cloth face covering use.
These findings show higher prevalence estimates of the use of cloth face coverings in May 2020 compared with April among all sociodemographic groups.
Research among persons who report not wearing a cloth face covering while in public is needed to understand potential barriers and to shape services or messages that would facilitate and encourage adoption of this recommendation.
Based on behavioral associations, messages should be targeted to reach populations not wearing cloth face coverings to promote a positive attitude toward cloth face covering use, encourage social networks to be supportive of cloth face covering use, describe positive health outcomes expected from wearing a cloth face covering, and help persons feel confident in their ability to obtain and wear cloth face coverings consistently and correctly.
Top Acknowledgments John Anderton, Dogan Eroglu, Fred Fridinger, John O’Connor, CDC; Deanne Weber, Porter Novelli.
Top Corresponding author: Kiva A.
Fisher, okm1@cdc.gov.
Top 1CDC COVID-19 Response Team; 2Department of Psychology, University of Hawaii at Manoa; 3Division of Science Integration, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, CDC; 4Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education, Oak Ridge, Tennessee; 5Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC; 6Division of Human Development and Disability, National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC; 7Office of the Director, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * Porter Novelli and ENGINE Insights collaborate on the PN View 360 surveys  ).
ENGINE Insights applies data quality filters that are embedded in every survey automatically and are designed to prevent cheating or speeding.
† CDC obtained the survey data from Porter Novelli Public Services through a subscription license.
Porter Novelli Public Services and its vendors are not subject to review by CDC’s Institutional Review Board; they adhere to professional standards and codes of conduct set forth by the Insights Association.
 .
§ “Most of the following questions are about the use of cloth face coverings during a viral outbreak or pandemic.
Cloth face coverings, which cover a person’s nose and mouth, are typically made of 100% cotton fabric and can be washed and worn over and over again.
They are not the same as paper disposable masks, or surgical or N95 masks used by health care workers, or dust masks used in the construction industry.” ¶  .
**  .
††  .
§§  .
***  .
††† 
Top References CDC.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
Recommendation for cloth face covers.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2020.
 Coppock A, McClellan OA.
Validating the demographic, political, psychological, and experimental results obtained from a new source of online survey respondents.
Research & Politics 2019;6:1–14.
CrossRef Glanz K, Rimer BK, Viswanath K, eds.
Health behavior and health education: theory, research, and practice.
Philadelphia, PA: John Wiley & Sons; 2015.
Czeisler MÉ, Tynan MA, Howard ME, et al.
Public attitudes, behaviors and beliefs related to COVID-19, stay-at-home orders, nonessential business closures, and public health guidance—New York City, Los Angeles, and United States, May 5–12, 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:751–8.
Bai Y, Yao L, Wei T, et al.
Presumed asymptomatic carrier transmission of COVID-19.
JAMA 2020;323:1406–7.
CrossRef PubMed Kimball A, Hatfield KM, Arons M, et al.; Public Health – Seattle & King County; CDC COVID-19 Investigation Team.
Asymptomatic and presymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections in residents of a long-term care skilled nursing facility—King County, Washington, March 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:377–81.
CrossRef PubMed World Health Organization.
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) advice for the public.
Geneva, Switzerland; 2020.
 Chu DK, Akl EA, Duda S, et al.; COVID-19 Systematic Urgent Review Group Effort (SURGE) study authors.
Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Lancet 2020;395:1973–87.
CrossRef PubMed Craig BM, Hays RD, Pickard AS, Cella D, Revicki DA, Reeve BB.
Comparison of US panel vendors for online surveys.
J Med Internet Res 2013;15:e260.
CrossRef PubMed Top TABLE 1.
Cloth face covering use among adults aged ≥18 years who left the house in the past week (N = 839), by sex, race/ethnicity, age, region, employment status, income, home ownership, and education, by survey wave — Porter Novelli Internet survey, United States, April–May 2020 Characteristic Adults who left the house in past week and used cloth face covering Survey wave April 7–9, 2020 (n = 408) May 11–13, 2020 (n = 431) No.
Weighted % (95% CI) No.
* Other race includes responses of Native American/Alaska Native, Asian, and other; these were combined because of small sample size.
† Working fulltime, part time, or self-employed.
§ Student, homemaker, retired, or not currently employed.
Top TABLE 2.
Attitude, behavioral intention, personal agency, perceived susceptibility, perceived norms, outcome expectations, and information sources associated with cloth face covering use among adults who left the house in the past week, by construct and information source — Porter Novelli Internet survey, United States, April–May 2020 Construct and information source* Adults who left house in past week and used cloth face covering Total (N = 593) April 2020 (n = 255) May 2020 (n = 338) No.
Weighted % (95% CI) No.
Weighted % (95% CI) No.
Weighted % (95% CI) Attitude toward behavior It is important for me to wear a cloth face covering when I am out in public 487 81.8 (78.36–85.22) 213 75.3 (69.87–80.77) 274 87.8 (83.65–91.97) It is important for everyone to wear a cloth face covering when they are out in public 493 79.5 (76.07–82.98) 213 71.3 (65.83–76.83) 280 87.3 (83.25–91.39) I think it is a good idea for me to wear a cloth face covering while out in public 500 78.1 (74.61–81.66) 217 70.7 (65.26–76.13) 283 85.2 (80.81–89.68) I think it is a good idea for everyone to wear a cloth face covering while out in public 487 77.9 (74.31–81.42) 217 70.7 (65.24–76.10) 270 85.1 (80.70–89.61) Behavioral intention I intend to wear a cloth face covering when I go to public spaces 500 84.2 (81.01–87.44) 213 78.7 (73.38–84.02) 287 89.0 (85.23–92.73) I plan to wear a cloth face covering every time I go out in a public space 482 85.3 (82.13–88.50) 212 79.7 (74.50–84.95) 270 90.5 (86.78–94.16) Personal agency Wearing a cloth face covering while I am out in public is easy for me 434 83.4 (79.86–86.96) 191 78.6 (73.04–84.26) 243 87.7 (83.26–92.19) I am able to wear a cloth face covering when I am out in public 510 78.0 (74.53–81.40) 216 70.0 (64.57–75.52) 294 85.2 (81.11–89.32) Perceived susceptibility I think it is likely that I will become infected with COVID-19 179 81.8 (76.04–87.51) 74 74.4 (65.32–83.58) 105 88.1 (80.97–95.19) Perceived norms People who are important to me want me to wear a cloth face covering when I am out in public 468 81.9 (78.41–85.45) 201 76.5 (70.95–82.06) 267 86.7 (82.26–91.09) People who are important to me believe that I should wear a cloth face covering when I am out in public 474 81.5 (78.03–84.90) 196 74.2 (68.48–79.83) 278 87.6 (83.62–91.65) Outcome expectations I would protect others from coronavirus if I wear a cloth face covering when out in public 481 76.8 (73.19–80.48) 212 69.5 (63.95–75.13) 269 83.9 (79.33–88.51) I would protect myself from coronavirus if I wear a cloth face covering when out in public 433 77.4 (73.57–81.22) 185 69.2 (63.34–75.16) 248 85.1 (80.32–89.89) Everyone wearing cloth face coverings while out in public would prevent the spread of coronavirus in our community 439 76.3 (72.48–80.11) 184 68.1 (62.16–74.05) 255 83.8 (79.05–88.54) Wearing a cloth face covering while out in public would lessen the chance that I could unknowingly spread coronavirus to others 495 74.4 (71.82–78.02) 213 66.3 (60.81–71.74) 282 82.4 (77.81–86.96) I can help stop the coronavirus outbreak in my community if I wear a cloth face covering while out in public 469 76.1 (72.40–79.82) 201 68.7 (63.03–74.40) 268 83.0 (78.28–87.76) Sources of information about cloth face coverings TV 395 72.1 (68.05–76.08) 173 64.3 (58.27–70.31) 222 79.7 (74.48–84.91) Internet 278 70.7 (65.84–75.54) 126 66.1 (59.08–73.15) 152 75.3 (68.69–82.01) Social media 263 69.5 (64.35–74.64) 124 66.9 (59.58–74.13) 139 72.2 (64.90–79.52) E-mail message 134 78.8 (71.81–85.78) 71 77.8 (68.21–87.40) 63 80.0 (69.80–90.22) Newspapers 159 83.1 (77.32–88.82) 65 77.3 (67.89–86.71) 94 88.2 (81.45–95.03) Grocery store 188 77.7 (71.90–83.47) 71 76.1 (66.80–85.45) 117 78.7 (71.26–86.05) Radio 146 80.2 (73.79–86.62) 71 77.1 (67.75–86.45) 75 83.3 (74.48–92.09) Health care provider 187 80.8 (75.05–86.54) 65 80.2 (70.79–89.56) 122 81.1 (73.86–88.43) Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019.
* Likert-type response items were dichotomized to assess agreement (strongly agree and agree versus neutral, disagree, and strongly disagree).
†Adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, and region.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Fisher KA, Barile JP, Guerin RJ, et al.
Factors Associated with Cloth Face Covering Use Among Adults During the COVID-19 Pandemic — United States, April and May 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:933-937.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Estimating the Future Number of Cases in the Ebola Epidemic — Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014–2015 Please select language Français Supplements September 26, 2014 / 63(03);1-14 Martin I.
Meltzer, PhD1 Charisma Y.
Atkins, MPH1 Scott Santibanez, MD1 Barbara Knust, DVM2 Brett W.
Petersen, MD2 Elizabeth D.
Ervin, MPH2 Stuart T.
Nichol, Ph.D2 Inger K.
Damon, MD, PhD2 Michael L.
Washington, PhD1 1Division of Preparedness and Emerging Infections, CDC 2Division of High Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, CDC Corresponding author: Martin I.
Meltzer, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
E-mail: qzm4@cdc.gov; Telephone: 404-639-7778.
Abstract The first cases of the current West African epidemic of Ebola virus disease (hereafter referred to as Ebola) were reported on March 22, 2014, with a report of 49 cases in Guinea.
By August 31, 2014, a total of 3,685 probable, confirmed, and suspected cases in West Africa had been reported.
To aid in planning for additional disease-control efforts, CDC constructed a modeling tool called EbolaResponse to provide estimates of the potential number of future cases.
If trends continue without scale-up of effective interventions, by September 30, 2014, Sierra Leone and Liberia will have a total of approximately 8,000 Ebola cases.
A potential underreporting correction factor of 2.5 also was calculated.
Using this correction factor, the model estimates that approximately 21,000 total cases will have occurred in Liberia and Sierra Leone by September 30, 2014.
Reported cases in Liberia are doubling every 15–20 days, and those in Sierra Leone are doubling every 30–40 days.
The EbolaResponse modeling tool also was used to estimate how control and prevention interventions can slow and eventually stop the epidemic.
In a hypothetical scenario, the epidemic begins to decrease and eventually end if approximately 70% of persons with Ebola are in medical care facilities or Ebola treatment units (ETUs) or, when these settings are at capacity, in a non-ETU setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed).
In another hypothetical scenario, every 30-day delay in increasing the percentage of patients in ETUs to 70% was associated with an approximate tripling in the number of daily cases that occur at the peak of the epidemic (however, the epidemic still eventually ends).
Officials have developed a plan to rapidly increase ETU capacities and also are developing innovative methods that can be quickly scaled up to isolate patients in non-ETU settings in a way that can help disrupt Ebola transmission in communities.
government and international organizations recently announced commitments to support these measures.
As these measures are rapidly implemented and sustained, the higher projections presented in this report become very unlikely.
Introduction The first cases of the current West African epidemic of Ebola virus disease (hereafter referred to as Ebola) were reported on March 22, 2014, with a report of 49 cases in Guinea (1).*,† By August 31, 2014, the World Health Organization had reported 3,685 probable, confirmed, and suspected cases in West Africa, with 2,914 in Sierra Leone and Liberia and 771 in Guinea (2).
To aid in planning for additional disease-control efforts, a modeling tool called EbolaResponse was constructed to provide estimates of the potential number of future cases.
Methods CDC constructed the EbolaResponse modeling tool in a spreadsheet (available at  using Microsoft Excel 2010 and used the model to estimate the increase in Ebola cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone (see Appendix for additional results and technical notes).
Similar to previous Ebola models (3,4), EbolaResponse tracks patients through the following states of Ebola-related infection and disease: susceptible to disease, infected, incubating, infectious, and recovered.
The infectious state also includes persons who die but whose burial provides risk for onward transmission.
All infected persons were assumed to eventually become symptomatic.
Data from reports of previous Ebola outbreaks were used to model the daily change of patients' status between the disease states.
For example, a probability distribution to characterize the likelihood of incubating a given number of days was built using previously published data (4).
Based on previous studies, patients were assumed to be infectious for a period of 6 days (3,5).
Hospitalized refers to facilities such as ETUs where medical care is provided.
Ideally, such facilities have infection-control protocols that prevent additional disease transmission.
However, this is not always the case.
Imported cases represent either cases in persons who travel into the community undetected from other outbreak-affected areas or persons who might represent previously undetected chains of transmission.
Substantial underreporting of cases might be occurring both in Liberia and Sierra Leone (7).
To correct for underreporting, EbolaResponse was used to predict the number of beds in use on August 28, 2014.
This number was then compared with the actual number of beds in use (from expert opinion estimates).
The difference in estimates calculated using the uncorrected data and the estimates using the data corrected for underreporting reflects the potential range of uncertainty regarding the actual number of cases that might occur.
Accuracy of the model forecasts was tested by comparing the latest available reported cases at time of writing to estimated cases (estimated using uncorrected data).
The last date of reported data used to fit the model was August 28, 2014, for Sierra Leone and August 29, 2014, for Liberia.
Reported cases were compared with estimated cases as of September 9, 2014, for Liberia and September 13, 2014, for Sierra Leone.
In the absence of a universal preventive intervention (e.g., vaccine), control of the epidemic consists of having as many patients as possible receiving care in hospitals or, when ETUs are at capacity, at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed).
Suitable methods to enhance protection and minimize disease transmission are under development.
To illustrate how increasing the percentage of patients in these two categories can control and eventually end the epidemic in Liberia, the first scenario was created.
Starting on August 24, 2014, and for the following 30 days, the percentage of patients in ETUs was increased from 10% of all patients to 17%.
Starting on August 24, 2014, and for the following 30 days, the percentage of patients at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission was increased from 8% of all patients to 20%.
To illustrate the cost of delay, in terms of additional cases and the resulting need for additional resources to end the epidemic, in starting to increase interventions that can control and eventually stop the epidemic, a second separate control-and-stop scenario was first constructed as follows.
Starting on September 23, 2014, and for the next 30 days, the percentage of all patients in ETUs was increased from 10% to 13%.
The percentage of patients at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission was kept at 8% from September 23, 2014, through the remainder of the period covered by the model.
The impact of delay of starting the increase in interventions was then estimated by twice repeating the above scenario but setting the start day on either October 23, 2014, or November 22, 2014.
Results If trends continue without additional interventions, the model estimates that Liberia and Sierra Leone will have approximately 8,000 total Ebola cases (21,000 total cases when corrected for underreporting) by September 30, 2014 (Figure 1).
Total cases in the two countries combined are doubling approximately every 20 days (Figure 1).
By September 30, 2014, without additional interventions and using the described likelihood of going to an ETU, approximately 670 daily beds in use (1,700 corrected for underreporting) will be needed in Liberia and Sierra Leone (Figure 2).
The uncorrected estimates of cases for Liberia on September 9, 2014, were 2,618, and the actual reported cases were 2,407 (i.e., model overestimated cases by +8.8%).
The uncorrected estimates of cases for Sierra Leone on September 13, 2014, were 1,505 and the actual reported cases were 1,620 (i.e., model underestimated cases by -7.6%).
Results from the two illustrative scenarios provide an example of how the epidemic can be controlled and eventually stopped.
In the first scenario, once 70% of patients are effectively isolated, the outbreak decreases at a rate nearly equal to the initial rate of increase.
Delaying the start of the intervention until October 23, 2014, results in the peak increasing to 4,178 daily cases (10,646 cases estimated using corrected data).
Discussion The cumulative number of Ebola cases for Liberia and Sierra Leone could double to approximately 8,000 by the end of September 2014.
This estimate is within the range of other published estimates (8,9).
Cases could be underreported by a factor of 2.5, and ending the epidemic requires approximately 70% of persons with Ebola to be treated either in an ETU or at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed).
A substantial cost can be associated with delaying the start of an increase in effective interventions.
In the relevant scenario examined in this report, every 30-day delay in increasing the percentage of patients in ETUs until 70% of all patients were hospitalized was associated with an approximate tripling of the number of daily cases that occur at the peak of the epidemic (however, the epidemic still eventually ends).
Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least five limitations.
First, extrapolating current trends in increase of cases to forecast all future cases might not be appropriate.
Underlying factors such as a spontaneous change in contacts with ill persons or burial practices or substantial changes in movement within countries or across borders could alter future growth patterns.
Therefore, limiting model-calculated projections to shorter durations such as 3 months might be more appropriate.
Second, assuming that this epidemic has similar epidemiologic parameters to previous outbreaks (e.g., incubation and infectiousness periods) might not be accurate, although anecdotal evidence to date has not indicated otherwise.
Third, reliance on expert opinion to estimate a correction factor regarding number of beds in use might not account sufficiently for factors such as patients being turned away from full ETUs.
Fourth, the correction factor could change substantially over time.
Notable regional differences in underreporting might mean that using one correction factor across an entire country is inappropriate.
Finally, the illustrative scenario does not consider the logistics needed to increase the percentages of patients who are receiving care in an ETU or at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed).
Conclusion The findings in this report underscore the substantial public health challenges posed by the predicted number of future Ebola cases.
If conditions continue without scale-up of interventions, cases will continue to double approximately every 20 days, and the number of cases in West Africa will rapidly reach extraordinary levels.
However, the findings also indicate that the epidemic can be controlled.
Ensuring that approximately 70% of the patients are in ETUs is necessary, or, when ETUs are at capacity, that they are at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed).
The existing capacity of ETUs to admit patients with Ebola is insufficient to stem the estimated increases in cases.
Delays in increasing ETU capacity translates into a cost of additional cases.
Results of the model support the need for more ETUs to be built, supplied, and staffed.
Officials have developed a plan to rapidly increase ETU capacities and also are developing innovative methods that can be quickly scaled up to isolate patients in non-ETU settings in a way that can help disrupt Ebola transmission in communities.
government and international organizations recently announced commitments to support these measures.
As these measures are rapidly implemented and sustained, the higher projections presented in this report become very unlikely.
Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge Karen Wong and Bradford Greening for providing technical comments on the report.
References World Health Organization, Africa Regional Office.
Ebola virus disease in Guinea.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
World Health Organization.
Ebola virus disease outbreak—West Africa.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
Chowell G, Hengartner NW, Castillo-Chavez C, Fenimore PW, Hyman JM.
The basic reproductive number of Ebola and the effects of public health measures: the cases of Congo and Uganda.
J Theor Biol 2004;229:119–26.
Legrand J, Grais RF, Boelle PY, Valleron AJ, Flahault A.
Understanding the dynamics of Ebola epidemics.
Epidemiol Infect 2007;135:610–21.
Lekone PE, Finkenstädt BF.
Statistical inference in a stochastic epidemic SEIR model with control intervention: Ebola as a case study.
Biometrics 2006;62:1170–7.
Borchert M, Mutyaba I, Van Kerkhove MD, et al.
Ebola haemorrhagic fever outbreak in Masindi District, Uganda: outbreak description and lessons learned.
BMC Infect Dis 2011;11:357.
World Health Organization.
No early end to the Ebola outbreak.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
Columbia prediction of infectious diseases: Ebola forecasts.
New York, NY: Columbia Mailman School of Public Health; 2014.
Available at 
Kupferschmidt K.
Disease modelers project a rapidly rising toll from Ebola.
ScienceInsider 2014;345 .
Available at 
* The latest updates, including case counts, on the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa are available at 
† The most up-to-date clinical guidelines on the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa are available at 
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated number of Ebola cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone during 2014, with and without correction for underreporting, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
If trends continue without additional interventions, CDC estimates that Liberia and Sierra Leone will have approximately 8,000 Ebola cases (21,000 cases when corrected for underreporting) by September 30, 2014.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated daily number of beds in use in Liberia and Sierra Leone during 2014, with and without correction for underreporting, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
By September 30 2014, without additional interventions and using the described likelihood of going to an Ebola treatment unit, approximately 670 daily beds in use (1,700 corrected for underreporting) will be needed in Liberia and Sierra Leone.
Appendix: Additional Results and Technical Notes for the EbolaResponse Modeling Tool Additional Results Numbers of Ebola virus disease cases (hereafter referred to as Ebola) and daily number of beds in use in Liberia and Sierra Leone alone (Figure 1) and in Liberia and Sierra Leone combined (Figure 2) were estimated using the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
The outcome of potential interventions on number of cases and beds in use in the two countries combined was simulated (Figure 3).
EbolaResponse Model Overview CDC has created a spreadsheet-based modeling tool called EbolaResponse that allows users to estimate the number of Ebola cases in a community (available at 
The model tracks patients through the following states: susceptible, infected, incubating, infectious, and recovered (an SIIR model).
EbolaResponse is, in effect, a Markov chain model and is similar to an Ebola model built in 2004 (1).
Probabilities drawn from reports of previous Ebola outbreaks are used to model the daily change in patients' status between and within the SIIR states.
For example, to estimate the duration of the incubating state, data were adapted from a previous study (2) that indicate the likelihood that an incubation period will last a certain number of days, up to a maximum of 25.
A patient can only progress forward through the states and can never regress (e.g., go from the incubating state back to susceptible) or skip a state (e.g., go from the incubating to the recovered state, skipping the infectious state).
All infected persons were assumed to eventually become symptomatic.
That is, the state of being infected but not becoming symptomatic at any period was not considered.
Assumed Population Size and Numbers Initially Infected Community sizes equal to the populations of either Liberia or Sierra Leone were assumed and used.
The community size can be readily altered.
Numbers used in the model as initially infected were chosen to match the number of cases first recorded (2).
Liberia Population: 4,294,000 (3) Initially infected: Nine Sierra Leone Population: 6,092,000 (3) Initially infected: 30 Incubation State Data from two sources (2,4) were used to construct a lognormal probability distribution of being in the incubation state (Figure 4, Table 1).
In one study, data from a 1995 outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC, formerly Zaire) and a 2000 outbreak in Uganda were used to estimate mean incubation periods of 5.30 days (SD: 0.23 days) and 3.35 days (SD: 0.49 days), respectively (1).
These are lower than other published estimates (2,4).
Some of the differences might be attributable to different subtypes of the virus (4).
The incubation distribution can be changed, with an upper limit of 25 days of incubation.
Users of the EbolaResponse modeling tool can change the incubation distribution by selecting from two alternative, preprogrammed distributions available from the drop-down menu in the appropriate page in EbolaResponse.
The two alternative distributions were based on previously published studies (2,4).
As yet another alternative, users can enter their own distribution.
Infectious State Average Number of Days An average infectious state of 6 days was assumed in the model, which includes any time taken for a traditional burial.
In comparison, data from a 1995 outbreak in DRC and a 2000 outbreak in Uganda (the latter caused by the Sudan strain of Ebola) (5) were used to calculate estimated mean infectious periods of 5.6 and 3.50 days, respectively (1).
Data from the 1995 Ebola outbreak in the Congo also were used to calculate an estimated mean infectious period of approximately 6 days (6).
Repeated testing of patients with Ebola has demonstrated that the amount of virus present increases until death or approximately 6–10 days after initial infection (7).
The EbolaResponse modeling tool can be used to adjust this period from 1 day to a maximum of 15 days.
The risk for onward transmission of infection to a person in the susceptible state was assumed to be equal throughout the 6 days.
No data were found regarding whether risk for onward transmission changes over the duration of fulminant illness.
However, the possibility exists that the risk does change as a patient becomes more ill and requires more care.
Burial Practices Traditional burial of the body of a person who has died from Ebola could involve contact with body fluids, posing a risk for infection.
For example, in northern Uganda, the body is prepared for burial by the paternal aunt (or if no paternal aunt exists, by an older woman on the paternal side of the family).
After removing clothes from the body, the woman washes and dresses it.
Funeral rituals include all family members washing their hands in a common bowl and touching the face of the deceased person in the open casket, referred to as a love touch.
A white cloth is used to wrap the body, and the body is buried (8).
Although this burial ritual is an example from Uganda, researchers have mentioned that similar practices occur throughout Africa (9).
Because cultural practices regarding burial might vary by region, users might want to change the period of infectiousness in the model.
Population Governor Although an exposed state is not included in the model, a population governor is included that prevents the model from calculating more cases than the input population.
This overestimation is possible if a user of the model assumes that most of the patients remain home with no effective isolation, the patient category that has the highest risk for onward disease transmission (Table 1).
In most instances, this governor is unlikely to affect the calculations from large populations.
The governor only begins to appreciably reduce estimates when approximately 40%–50% of the population has become infected.
The EbolaResponse governor also is programmed so that the minimum value of the calculated factor cannot be less than 0, preventing the possibility of negative cases.
Distribution Over Time of Patients by Patient Category Patients were categorized by three types of patient.
These three categories have different levels of isolation: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home with no effective isolation.
Hospitalized patients are in facilities such as Ebola treatment units (ETUs) where medical care is provided.
Ideally, such facilities have infection-control protocols that prevent additional disease transmission.
However, this is not always the case, and health-care workers in medical care facilities have been infected after contact with Ebola patients (10).
Therefore, the average daily risk for transmission is greater than zero in these facilities (i.e., transmission occurs), but the risk is fewer than one person infected per infectious patient (Table 1).
A patient who is at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed) is being attended to with the overall goal of reducing transmission to other members of the household.
If the patient dies, safe burial practices are used.
Risk is fewer than one person infected per infectious patient (Table 1).
A patient who is at home with no effective isolation is being attended to at home but with no specific infection-control measures in place.
In addition, if the patient dies, no measures are in place to limit transmission.
This patient category has the greatest risk for onward transmission (Table 1).
These three categories have varying risk for onward Ebola virus transmission over time (Figure 5).
The estimated values were calculated by altering these values with the risk for onward transmission (Table 1) as well as the number of imported cases or cases in patients with no known contacts (Table 2).
All of these values were altered until the estimates of cases produced by the model closely matched (i.e., fit) the reported cases to date (see also Goodness of Fit section).
The distribution of patients into the three patient categories influences the overall progress of the epidemic.
For example, the more patients who are hospitalized and at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission, the slower the progress of the epidemic because these two categories are calculated to have transmission rates of fewer than one person infected per infectious person (Table 1).
A certain proportion of patients who were home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission and home with no effective isolation was assumed to eventually become hospitalized in ETUs (Table 3).
However, they were assumed to be hospitalized so late in the progression of the disease that the average risk for onward transmission was unchanged.
Risk for Onward Transmission The risk for onward transmission from an Ebola patient in the infectious state to persons in the susceptible state varies by patient category (Table 1).
The estimated values were calculated by altering these values along with the distribution of patients by category of patient (Figure 5) as well as the number of imported cases or cases in patients with no known contacts (Table 2).
All of these values were altered until the estimates of cases produced by the model closely matched (i.e., fit) the reported cases to date (see also Goodness of Fit section).
Allowing for Imported Cases or Cases in Persons With No Known Contacts The ability to add imported cases (whole numbers) every 10 days was built into the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
These persons are entered into the model as infected and then go through incubation before becoming infectious.
Imported cases represent 1) Ebola cases in persons who travel into the community undetected from another outbreak-affected area or 2) cases in persons whose infection cannot be readily explained by contact tracing (i.e., apparently no known contact with a previously ill patient).
The values shown (Table 2) were used to calculate the estimated cases presented in the main report.
The estimated number of imported cases per each 10-day time step were calculated by altering these numbers along with the distribution of patients by category of patient (Figure 5) as well as the risk for onward transmission (Table 1).
All of these numbers were altered until the estimates of cases produced by the model closely matched (i.e., fit) the reported cases to date (see also Goodness of Fit section).
Likelihood of Being Hospitalized and Duration of Hospital Stay To estimate daily hospital admissions and daily number of beds in use, both the likelihood of a patient being hospitalized and the number of days that a patient in each patient category would spend in the hospital had to be assumed (Table 3).
Correcting for Potential Underreporting Substantial underreporting of cases might be occurring both in Liberia and Sierra Leone (11).
To adjust for such a possibility, the calculated daily number of hospital beds in use was compared with expert opinion of number of beds in use.
A correction factor of approximately 2.5 was calculated for Liberia (Table 4).
Therefore, to obtain an estimate of actual cases, the reported cases are multiplied by 2.5.
After a corrected number of cases was calculated, the model was refitted (see Goodness of Fit section).
Goodness of Fit The following three variables were altered so that the estimates from the model more closely matched (i.e., fit) the actual reported cases: Percentage of patients in each of the three patient categories, with percentages changing over time in increments of 30 days (Figure 5) Daily risk for transmission of Ebola by patient category (Table 1) Addition of imported cases (Table 2) For both the Sierra Leone and Liberian data, these three numbers were altered until the estimates of cases for either Sierra Leone or Liberia produced by the model fit the reported cases to date (Table 5, Figure 6) (12).
Visual inspection was used to validate the fit of the model-predicted cases to the actual reported cases (Figure 6).
Interventions Controlling the Epidemic The EbolaResponse modeling tool was used to construct a scenario to illustrate how control and prevention interventions can slow and eventually stop the Ebola epidemic in Liberia.
Control is achieved by moving patients who are being attended to at home with no effective isolation to either the hospitalized category or at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed) category (see also Distribution Over Time of Patients by Patient Category).
The more patients who are hospitalized or being attended to at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission, the slower the progress of the epidemic because these two categories are calculated to have transmission rates of fewer than one person infected per infectious person (Table 1).
The interventions affect the cumulative numbers of cases of Ebola and daily beds in use (Figure 3, Figure 7).
Methods Applying Interventions and Distribution of Patients into Categories As described previously, in the EbolaResponse modeling tool, Ebola patients are categorized by three levels that result in different levels of isolation: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home with no effective isolation.
These three categories affect the risk for onward Ebola virus transmission; the highest risk for transmission occurs among patients who are in the third category (Table 1).
In the absence of a universal preventive intervention (e.g., vaccine), control of the epidemic consists of having as many patients as possible in either the hospitalized category or at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission category.
To illustrate how increasing the percentage of patients in these two categories can control and eventually end the epidemic in Liberia, the following circumstances were assumed.
Starting on August 24, 2014 (day 151 in the model), the percentage of patients hospitalized in ETUs was assumed to increase from 10% of all patients to 17%.
In the subsequent 30 days (starting September 21, 2014), the percentage was increased to 25% and stayed at that level for the remainder of the simulation (Figure 8).
In addition, starting on August 24, 2014, the percentage of patients at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed) was increased from 8% of all patients to 20%.
This percentage was increased to 30% for the following 30 days (starting September 21, 2014).
This percentage was then increased to 35% for the 30 days starting October 23, 2015, followed by increases to 40% and 45% on November 22, 2014, and December 22, 2014, respectively (Figure 7).
With the described increases of patients, by December 22, 2014, a total of 70% of patients (25% hospitalized in ETUs and 45% at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission) are estimated to be in the two categories that are known to reduce Ebola transmission.
Fitting the Model and Goodness of Fit As described previously, to estimate the potential impact of interventions, the input values of the distribution of patients, the risk for onward transmission, and the number of imported cases or cases with no known contacts were altered in the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
The interventions are assumed to start after the date of the last reported case.
Therefore, the input values for imported cases are the same as those shown for Liberia (both uncorrected and corrected) (Table 2).
Similarly, the same values were used for the daily risk for transmission (Table 1).
Because the interventions start after the date of the last reported case, the originally calculated input values (Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3) and the resulting goodness of fit for the Liberian data (Table 5 and Figure 6) are all valid for the intervention scenario.
Cost of Delay To illustrate the cost of delay, in terms of additional cases and the resulting need for additional resources to end the epidemic, in starting to increase interventions that can control and eventually stop the epidemic, a separate control-and-stop scenario was first constructed as follows.
Starting on September 23, 2014, and for the next 30 days, the percentage of all patients in ETUs was increased from 10% to 13%.
This percentage was again increased on October 23, 2014, to 25%, on November 22, 2014, to 40%, and finally on December 22, 2014, to 70% (Figure 9) (i.e., it takes 90 days for the percentage of patients in ETUs to reach 70% of all patients).
The percentage of patients at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission was kept at 8% from September 23, 2014, through the remainder of the period covered by the model.
The impact of delay of starting the increase in interventions was then estimated by twice repeating the above scenario but setting the start day on either October 23, 2014, or November 22, 2014.
Delaying the start of the intervention, until October 23, 2014, results in the peak increasing to 4,178 daily cases (10,646 cases estimated using corrected data).
Delaying the start further, until November 22, results in 10,184 daily cases (25,847 estimated using corrected data) by January 20, 2015, which is the last date included in the model (Figure 10).
References Chowell G, Hengartner NW, Castillo-Chavez C, Fenimore PW, Hyman JM.
The basic reproductive number of Ebola and the effects of public health measures: the cases of Congo and Uganda.
J Theor Biol 2004;229:119–26.
Legrand J, Grais RF, Boelle PY, Valleron AJ, Flahault A.
Understanding the dynamics of Ebola epidemics.
Epidemiol Infect 2007;135:610–21.
The World Bank.
Data: population, total.
Washington, DC: The World Bank; 2014.
Available at 
Eichner M, Dowell SF, Firese N.
Incubation period of Ebola hemorrhagic virus subtype Zaire.
Osong Public Health Res Perspect 2011;2:3–7.
Outbreaks chronology: Ebola hemorrhagic fever.
Atlanta, GA: CDC; 2014.
Available at 
Lekone PE, Finkenstädt BF.
Statistical inference in a stochastic epidemic SEIR model with control intervention: Ebola as a case study.
Biometrics 2006;62:1170–7.
Towner JS, Rollin PE, Bausch DG, et al.
Rapid diagnosis of Ebola hemorrhagic fever by reverse-transcription-PCR in an outbreak setting and assessment of patient viral load as a predictor of outcome.
J Virol 2004;78:4330–41.
Hewlett BS, Amola RP.
Cultural contexts of Ebola in northern Uganda.
Emerg Infect Dis 2003;9:1242–8.
Marrying modern health practices and technology with traditional practices: Issues for the African continent.
Int Nurs Rev 2002;49:161–7.
World health Organization.
Unprecedented number of medical staff infected with Ebola.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
World Health Organization.
No early end to the Ebola outbreak.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
World Health Organization.
Ebola virus disease outbreak—West Africa.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.
Available at 
Estimated number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use,* with and without correction for underreporting,† through September 30 — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014 * Estimates of daily number of beds in use are calculated using estimates of likelihood of going to an Ebola treatment unit (ETU) and days in the ETU (Table 3).
† Corrected for potential underreporting by multiplying reported cases by a factor of 2.5 (Table 4).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use, in Liberia and Sierra Leone alone during 2014, with and without correction for underreporting, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
Estimated number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use,* with and without correction for underreporting† — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone combined, 2014–2015 * Corrected for potential underreporting by multiplying reported cases by a factor of 2.5 (Table 4).
† Estimates of daily number of beds in use are calculated using estimates of likelihood of going to an Ebola treatment unit (ETU) and days in the ETU (Table 3).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use Liberia and Sierra Leone combined during 2014, with and without correction for underreporting, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
Estimated impact of intervention* on number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use,† with and without correction for underreporting§ — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014–2015 * To construct an illustrative control scenario in Liberia, an intervention modeling scenario was created in which, starting on August 24, 2014, the percentage of patients in Ebola treatment units (ETUs) increased from 10% of all patients to 17%.
In the subsequent 30 days (starting September 21, 2014), that percentage was increased to 25% and left at that level for the remainder of the period covered by the model (Figure 8).
Starting on August 24, 2014, the percentage of patients at home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed) was increased from 8% of all patients to 20%.
† Estimates of daily number of beds in use are calculated using estimates of likelihood of going to an ETU and days in the ETU (Table 3).
§ Corrected for potential underreporting by multiplying reported cases by a factor of 2.5 (Table 4).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated impact of intervention on number of Ebola cases and daily number of beds in use in Liberia and Sierra Leone combined during 2014, with and without correction for underreporting, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
The EbolaResponse modeling tool was used to construct a scenario to illustrate how control and prevention interventions.
The interventions affect the cumulative numbers of cases of Ebola and daily beds in use.
Distribution of Ebola virus incubation period, by days of incubation Sources: Data adapted from Legrand J, Grais RF, Boelle PY, Valleron AJ, Flahault A.
Understanding the dynamics of Ebola epidemics.
Epidemiol Infect 2007;135:610–21; and Eichner M, Dowell SF, Firese N.
Incubation period of Ebola hemorrhagic virus subtype Zaire.
Osong Public Health Res Perspect 2011;2:3–7.
* Frequency relates to number of patients out of a total of 5,000 patients.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the distribution of Ebola virus incubation period, by days of incubation.
Data from two sources were used to construct a lognormal probability distribution of being in the incubation state.
The mean incubation period derived from this calculation is 6.3 days (standard deviation: 3.31 days), with a median of 5.5 days and a 99th percentile at 21 days.
Proportion of patients* with Ebola over time, by category of patient† — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014 * Distribution estimated using the modeling tool, obtained after fitting the model output (cumulative number of cases) to actual data.
† Patients are distributed in the EbolaResponse modeling tool into one of three categories: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home with no effective isolation.
These three categories reflect the risk for onward Ebola transmission (Table 1).
EbolaResponse is programmed to make changes in the distribution of patients among the three categories of care every 30 days.
For Liberia, day 1 is March 3, 2014, and for Sierra Leone, is May 27, 2014.
September 22, 2014, is day 180 when the model is fitted to Liberian data and is day 119 when the model is fitted to Sierra Leone data.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the proportion of patients with Ebola over time, by category of patient in Liberia and Sierra Leone during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
Patients were categorized by three types.
These three categories have different levels of isolation: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home with no effective isolation.
These three categories have varying risk for onward Ebola virus transmission over time.
The percentage of patients in each of the three patient categories, with percentages changing over time in increments of 30 days, was one of three variables altered so that the estimates from the model more closely matched (i.e., fit) the actual reported cases.
Calculated risk for onward transmission of Ebola, by patient category — EbolaResponse modeling tool, West Africa, 2014 Patient category Daily risk for onward transmission No.
infected per infectious person (95% CI)§ Values used to fit to data for Liberia and Sierra Leone* Values from literature† From literature Model estimates DRC (95% CI) Uganda (95% CI) Hospitalized 0.02 0.1134 (0.00001–0.5842) 0.0017 (0.0–0.918) 0.4 (0–2.2) 0.12 0.01 (0–3.5) Home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed) 0.03 0.084 (0.06–0.313) 0.5045 (0.0576–0.5391) 0.5 (0.4–1.9) 0.18 2.6 (0.3–2.8) Home with no effective isolation 0.3 1.0932 (0.00001–1.4281) 0.066 (0.0–3.0367) 1.8 (0–2.3) 1.8 0.1 (0–3.2) Abbreviations: CI, confidence interval; DRC, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
* Values used to obtain a good fit of cases estimated by the EbolaResponse model to the reported cumulative cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone.
† Values adapted from weekly values given by from Ebola outbreaks in 1995 in DRC (formerly Zaire) and in 2000 in Uganda.
(Source: Legrand J, Grais RF, Boelle PY, Valleron AJ, Flahault A.
Understanding the dynamics of Ebola epidemics.
Epidemiol Infect 2007;135:610–21.) § When these values remain at fewer than one person infected per infectious person, the epidemic eventually ends.
The EbolaResponse modeling tool uses the shown values to fit the model to the data, assuming 6 days of infectiousness (e.g., 0.3 x 6 = 1.8 people infected per infectious person).
Calculated number of arrivals of imported cases* of Ebola, by duration of epidemic — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014 Duration of epidemic (days) Arrivals of imported cases (no.) Liberia Sierra Leone Model with uncorrected data Model with corrected data† Model with uncorrected data Model with corrected data† 10 0 0 25 25 20 0 0 0 0 30 0 0 0 0 40 0 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 60 0 0 0 0 70 10 3 0 0 80 10 4 0 0 90 7 4 0 0 100 7 4 0 0 110 6 4 0 0 120 15 20 0 0 130 10 22 0 0 140 15 20 0 0 150 0 0 0 0 160 0 0 0 0 170 0 0 0 0 180 0 0 0 0 190 0 0 0 0 200 0 0 0 0 210 0 0 0 0 220 0 0 0 0 230 0 0 0 0 240 0 0 0 0 250 0 0 0 0 260 0 0 0 0 270 0 0 0 0 280 0 0 0 0 290 0 0 0 0 300 0 0 0 0 * Imported cases represent 1) persons with Ebola who travel into the community undetected from another outbreak-affected area or 2) those whose infection cannot be readily explained by contact tracing (i.e., apparently no known contact with a previously ill patient).
† The impact of possible underreporting was examined, and the data from both countries were corrected by factor of 2.5.
After the reported cases were multiplied by 2.5, the model was refitted to the corrected data, which in some instances required altering input values such as number of imported cases.
Assumptions about the likelihood of being hospitalized with and duration of hospital stay for Ebola, by category of patient — EbolaResponse modeling tool, West Africa, 2014 Patient category* Likelihood of being hospitalized Hospital stay (days) Hospitalized, effective prevention/control 1 12 Home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed)† 0.5 7 Home no effective isolation† 0.3 4 Source: Data adapted from Borchert M, Mutyaba I, Van Kerkhove MD, et al.
Ebola haemorrhagic fever outbreak in Masindi District, Uganda: outbreak description and lessons learned.
BMC Infect Dis 2011;11:357.
* Patient category defines the risk for onward transmission of Ebola.
† A proportion of patients in this category was assumed to eventually go to the hospital.
However, they were assumed to go so late in the progression of the disease that the average risk for onward transmission was unchanged.
Calculation of correction factor to adjust for potential underreporting of Ebola cases: comparison between model estimates and expert opinion estimates of number of beds in use — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014 Country Uncorrected model (no.) Corrected model (no.) Beds in use, expert opinion (no.)* Correction factor† Cases Beds in use Cases Beds in use Liberia 1,552 143 3,915 367 320 2.5 * Obtained from known existing and functioning Ebola treatment units.
Some patients might have been turned away from certain Ebola treatment units; this number is unknown.
† Calculated based on differences in estimated uncorrected number of beds in use and expert opinion number of beds in use as of August 28, 2014.
Comparison of reported and model-predicted number of Ebola cases*— EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014 Country Reported cases (no.)† Predicted cases (no.) Liberia 1,550 1,552 Sierra Leone 1,117 1,112 * As of August 28, 2014.
† Source: World Health Organization.
Goodness of fit: comparison of cumulative reported and model-predicted numbers of Ebola cases* — EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia and Sierra Leone, 2014 * Model-predicted number of cases, obtained by altering the percentage of patients in each of the three categories of patient (Figure 5), risk for transmission of Ebola by category of patient (Table 1), and addition of imported cases (Table 2) until the estimates produced by the model for either Sierra Leone or Liberia closely matched (fit) the reported cases to date from the World Health Organization.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the goodness of fit: comparison of cumulative reported and model-predicted numbers of Ebola cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
The following three variables were altered so that the estimates from the model more closely matched (i.e., fit) the actual reported cases: Percentage of patients in each of the three patient categories, with percentages changing over time in increments of 30 days.
Daily risk for transmission of Ebola by patient category.
Addition of imported cases.
For both the Sierra Leone and Liberian data, these three values were altered until the estimates of cases for either Sierra Leone or Liberia produced by the model fit the reported cases to date.
Estimated impact of interventions on cumulative number of Ebola cases, with and without corrected data*— EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014 * Corrected for potential underreporting by multiplying reported cases by a factor of 2.5 (Table 4).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated impact of interventions on cumulative number of Ebola cases, with and without corrected data in Liberia during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
The EbolaResponse modeling tool was used to construct a scenario to illustrate how control and prevention interventions.
The interventions affect the cumulative numbers of cases of Ebola and daily beds in use.
Estimated impact of interventions by changing proportion of patients* with Ebola over time, by category of patient†— EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014 * Distribution through August 24, 2014, (day 151) estimated using the modeling tool, obtained after fitting the model output (cumulative number of cases) to actual data.
Distributions after that date are based on estimates determined from the scenario to illustrate how interventions can slow and eventually stop the Ebola epidemic in Liberia.
† Patients are distributed in the EbolaResponse modeling tool into one of three categories: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk for disease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home with no effective isolation.
These three categories reflect the risk for onward Ebola transmission (Table 1).
EbolaResponse is programmed to make changes in the distribution of patients among the three categories every 30 days.
For Liberia, day 1 is March 3, 2014, and September 22, 2014, is day 180.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated impact of interventions on proportion of patients with Ebola over time, by category of patient in Liberia during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
To illustrate how increasing the percentage of patients in these two categories can control and eventually end the epidemic in Liberia, the following circumstances were assumed.
Starting on August 24, 2014 (day 151 in the model), the percentage of patients hospitalized in Ebola treatment units was assumed to increase from 10% of all patients to 17%.
In the subsequent 30 days (starting September 21, 2014), the percentage was increased to 25% and stayed at that level for the remainder of the simulation.
Estimated impact of delaying intervention* by changing proportion of patients with Ebola over time, by category of patient†— EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014 * Intervention: Starting on September 23, 2014, (day 181 in model) and for the next 30 days, the percentage of all patients in Ebola treatment units (ETUs) was increased from 10% to 13%.
This percentage was again increased on October 23, 2014 (day 211 in model) to 25%, on November 22, 2014 (day 241 in model) to 40%, and finally on December 22, 2014 (day 271 in model) to 70%.
Day 1 in model is March 3, 2014.
The impact of a delay of starting the increase in interventions was then estimated by twice repeating the above scenario but setting the start day on either October 23, 2014, or November 22, 2014.
† Patients are distributed in the EbolaResponse modeling tool into one of three categories: 1) hospitalized, 2) home or in a community setting such that there is a reduced risk fordisease transmission (including safe burial when needed), and 3) home without effective isolation.
These three categories reflect the risk for onward Ebola transmission (Table 1).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated impact of delaying interventions on proportion of patients with Ebola over time, by category of patient in Liberia during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
To illustrate how increasing the percentage of patients in these two categories can control and eventually end the epidemic in Liberia, the following circumstances were assumed.
Starting on September 23, 2014 (day 181 in the model), the percentage of patients hospitalized in Ebola treatment units was assumed to increase from 10% of all patients to 17%.
This percentage was increased on October 23, 2014 (day 211 in the model) to 25%, on November 22, 2014 (day 241 in the model) to 40% and on December 22, 2014 (day 271 in the model) to 70%.
Estimated impact of delaying intervention* on daily number of Ebola cases, with and without correction for underreporting† —EbolaResponse modeling tool, Liberia, 2014–2015 * Intervention: Starting on September 23, 2014 (day 181 in model), and for the next 30 days, the percentage of all patients in Ebola treatment units was increased from 10% to 13%.
This percentage was again increased on October 23, 2014 (day 211 in model) to 25%, on November 22, 2014 (day 241 in model) to 40%, and finally on December 22, 2014 (day 271 in model) to 70%.
Day 1 in model is March 3, 2014.
The impact of a delay of starting the increase in interventions was then estimated by twice repeating the above scenario but setting the start day on either October 23, 2014, or November 22, 2014.
† Corrected for potential underreporting by multiplying reported cases by a factor of 2.5 (Table 4).
§ New Ebola patients at peak of each start date.
(Note that when the intervention is started on November 22, 2014, the peak is not reached by January 20, 2014, which is the last date included in the model.) Alternate Text: The figure above shows the estimated impact of delaying interventions on the daily number of patients with Ebola over time, with and without correction for underreporting in Liberia during 2014, according to the EbolaResponse modeling tool.
Starting on September 23, 2014 (day 181 in the model), the percentage of patients hospitalized in Ebola treatment units was assumed to increase from 10% of all patients to 17%.
This percentage was increased on October 23, 2014 (day 211 in the model) to 25%, on November 22, 2014 (day 241 in the model) to 40% and on December 22, 2014 (day 271 in the model) to 70%.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search MMWR Questions – Information Request form Print RAW MODULE Form *Required Title/occupation: First Name: Last Name: Organization: Phone Number: *Email Address: Address: Street Address: Street Address (continued, optional): City: Province/State: Country: Country...
United States of America Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua & Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire Bosnia & Herzegovina Botswana Brazil British Indian Ocean Ter Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Island Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Ter Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Great Britain Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Hawaii Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea North Korea South Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Midway Islands Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Nambia Nauru Nepal Netherland Antilles Netherlands (Holland, Europe) Nevis New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Island Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Island Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of Montenegro Republic of Serbia Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda St Barthelemy St Eustatius St Helena St Kitts-Nevis St Lucia St Maarten St Pierre & Miquelon St Vincent & Grenadines Saipan Samoa Samoa American San Marino Sao Tome & Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Tahiti Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad & Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks & Caicos Is Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (Brit) Virgin Islands (USA) Wake Island Wallis & Futana Is Yemen Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Postal Code: Please select the topic that best describes your message.
(Providing this information will help us process your message more quickly.) *Select a topic: Select...
*Questions regarding an MMWR issue MMWR Subscriptions *Other (Please describe below.) Other: *Questions or Comments: Submit Clear Form Last Reviewed: May 19, 2016 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Search Linking to CDC.gov Print Why Link to CDC.gov?
CDC.gov ( is the official website of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
It is a public domain website, which means you may link to CDC.gov at no cost and without specific permission.
CDC.gov provides direct access to important health and safety topics, scientific articles, data and statistics, tools and resources – and over 900 topics in the CDC.gov A-Z Index.
How to Link to CDC.gov If you’d like to offer visitors to your website an easy link to official U.S.
government information and services, we encourage you to add a text or graphic link to CDC.
The CDC.gov linking graphic may be used only to link to the CDC.gov website.
We ask that when you link to CDC.gov, you do it in an appropriate context and as a service to your web visitors.
Graphic Link to CDC.gov Please visit the Buttons and Badges Gallery at our Public Health Media Library for a number of buttons and badges created for CDC events and campaigns, as well as national public health activities.
You can copy and paste the code to embed these buttons and badges in your websites, social media profiles, and blogs.
Text Link to Describe CDC.gov If you use a text link to the CDC website, we suggest including a sentence or two to describe CDC.
Short: CDC.gov ( is your online source for credible health information and is the official website of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Long: CDC.gov ( is your online source for credible health information and is the official website of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
CDC is committed to achieving true improvements in people’s health.
CDC applies research and findings to improve people’s daily lives and responds to health emergencies—something that distinguishes CDC from its peer agencies.
Working with states and other partners, CDC provides a system of health surveillance to monitor and prevent disease outbreaks (including bioterrorism), implement disease prevention strategies, and maintain national health statistics.
CDC also guards against international disease transmission, with personnel stationed in more than 60 countries.
Disclaimer Placement of a CDC.gov linking graphic or text link is to be used only as a marker to the CDC.gov home page.
A link does not indicate any form of endorsement or approval from CDC, or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Questions or Comments If you have any questions about linking to CDC.gov, the use of the CDC.gov linking graphics, or want more information or promotional materials on CDC.gov, please contact us.
Last Reviewed: May 27, 2021 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home Using CDC.gov Accessibility About CDC.gov plus icon Policies and Regulations plus icon CDC Nondiscrimination notice Enterprise Risk Management Guidelines for Public Comments Language Assistance Linking to CDC.gov Phone Scams and Phishing Attacks Plain Writing Privacy Policy plus icon Use of Agency Materials Website Disclaimers CDC.gov & Generative Artificial Intelligence Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Search File Formats used on CDC.gov Print Plugin Descriptions Below are the required icons for use with the CDC.gov Template Package.
Adobe Acrobat Reader (PDF) Description: Adobe Acrobat Reader is a program that allows users to view files in Portable Document Format (PDF).
PDF is a universal file format that preserves the appearance of the original document.
PDF files can be easily printed but not easily modified.
Several documents throughout this Web site are available in PDF.
These files contain complex documents with graphs, images, and special text that cannot be presented easily through the typical Web browser.
The creator of this file format, Adobe® Systems, offers a free viewer so that you can view any PDF file.
File extensions: .pdf Viewing: If you do not already have Adobe Acrobat, you can download Acrobat Reader for free.
Audio/Video Files Description: Audio and video files used on the CDC.gov site are commonly formatted at MP3, MP4, or WMV files (e.g.
Podcasts, CDC-TV).
These audio and video files and others such as MPEG, AVI, and WAV) must use the generic audio/video icon.
File extensions: .avi (audio), .mp3 (audio), .wav (audio), .wma (audio), .mpeg (video), .wmv (video), .mpg (video), .webm (video), .ogg (container), .ogy (container) ePub file format Description: An electronic book or ePub is a book-length publication in digital form, consisting of text, images, or both, readable on computers or other electronic devices.
File extensions: .epub Viewing: Using Apple iBooks, Amazon Kindle devices, and many other ebook reading devices.
Microsoft Excel Description: Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet program used to calculate, analyze, and store data.
Text in Excel files can be easily modified or copied for use in other applications.
File extensions: .xls, .xlsx, .csv Viewing: If you do not already have Excel, you can download Excel Viewer for free.
Microsoft PowerPoint Description: Microsoft PowerPoint is a program for creating and viewing presentations and slide shows.
File extensions: .ppt, .pptx Viewing: If you do not already have PowerPoint, you can download PowerPoint Viewer for free.
Microsoft Word Description: Microsoft Word is a word processing program used to create and edit text documents.
Text in Word documents can be easily modified or copied for use in other applications.
File extensions: .doc, .docx, .rtf Viewing: If you do not already have Word, you can download Word Viewer for free.
QuickTime Description: QuickTime is a program for viewing and listening to audio and video files (including live broadcasts).
File extensions: .mov, .qt, .mp4 Viewing/listening: If you do not already have QuickTime, you can download QuickTime for free.
RealPlayer Description: RealPlayer is a program for viewing and listening to audio and video files (including live broadcasts).
File extensions: .ra, .ram, .rm Viewing/listening: If you do not already have RealPlayer, you can download RealPlayer for free.
(Select “Download Free RealPlayer” on the right side of the page.) RIS file format Description: The RIS file format is a text file containing bibliographic citations.
These files are best suited for import into bibliographic management applications such as EndNote® , Reference Manager® , and ProCite® .
Viewing: A free trial download is available at each application’s web site.
SAS Universal Viewer Description: The SAS Universal Viewer enables you to view, sort, and filter SAS data sets and other simple text-based files.
You cannot edit SAS data sets with the SAS Universal Viewer.
You do not have to invoke SAS or install SAS on your computer in order to use the SAS Universal Viewer.
SAS Universal Viewer allows users to save SAS datasets in XML and CSV formats that can be used with other software programs.
Viewing: Download SAS Universal Viewer by visiting the SAS Software web page.
Text file format Description: A text file is a kind of computer file that is structured as a sequence of lines of electronic text containing plain text, but they are not limited to such.
File extensions: .txt Viewing: Created by Notepad and TextEdit when document formatting is removed and some hardware devices recognize plain text files.
WinZip & Other Programs for Zipping/Compressing Files Description: WinZip and similar programs (such as PowerZip, TurboZip, ZipScan, WinConfig, and StuffIt) are used to archive and compress files so that they can be stored and distributed more efficiently.
File extensions: .zip Viewing: If you do not already have a compression program such as WinZip, you can download a free 21-day trial version of WinZip or download a similar compression program.
Last Reviewed: September 6, 2018 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home Using CDC.gov Accessibility About CDC.gov plus icon Policies and Regulations plus icon Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search State Health Statistic Print National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) Data Background information and guidance to users about NNDSS data is available at the NNDSS Data and Statistics web page at 
NNDSS data are available in the following ways: Weekly and Quarterly Data: Beginning in January 2018, links to weekly data for most infectious diseases and quarterly data for tuberculosis are available on the NNDSS Data and Statistics web page at 
The web page also has links to historical data from the MMWR weekly report in the section titled “Notifiable Diseases and Mortality Tables” and links to these weekly and quarterly data in a machine-readable format.
Annual Infectious Disease Data: Beginning with data year 2016, links to annual data for infectious diseases and conditions are available on the NNDSS Data and Statistics web page at 
The web page also has links to historical data for data years 1993 through 2015 in MMWR and to historical reports in CDC Stacks.
Annual Noninfectious Disease Data: Beginning in November 2017, links to surveillance reports published by CDC programs about NNDSS noninfectious conditions and disease outbreaks are available on the NNDSS Data and Statistics web page at 
The web page also has links to limited historical data in MMWR.
Search Pneumonia and Influenza Mortality Surveillance Note: The 122 Cities Mortality Reporting System (CMRS) was retired, as of Week 40 in 2016.
Weekly reports from the CMRS are available in the MMWR weekly issues through Week 39 2016, available in the CDC Stacks Data for selected nationally notifiable diseases reported by the 50 states, New York City, the District of Columbia, and the U.S.
territories are collated and published weekly in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR).
Cases reported by state health departments to CDC for weekly publication are provisional because of ongoing revision of information and delayed reporting.
Case counts in these query tables are presented as they were published in the MMWR.
Therefore, numbers listed in later MMWR weeks may reflect changes made to these counts as additional information becomes available.
Last Reviewed: March 10, 2025 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip to site content Skip to search An official website of the United States government.
Here's how you know Español The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
HEALTH TOPICS OUTBREAKS ABOUT CDC SEARCH Safe Sleep for Babies Learn More Breast Cancer Awareness Learn More H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation Learn More Safe Sleep for Babies Breast Cancer Awareness H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation Pause carousel HEALTH TOPICS OUTBREAKS ABOUT CDC SEARCH About CDC CDC is the nation's leading science-based, data-driven, service organization that protects the public's health.
CDC works 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search MMWR CEs: Serial Publications Print Disclosure In compliance with continuing education requirements, all presenters must disclose any financial or other associations with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters as well as any use of unlabeled product(s) or product(s) under investigational use.
CDC, our planners, content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters.
Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no bias.
Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a product under investigational use.
CDC did not accept commercial support for this educational activity.
No fees are charged for CDC’s CE activities.
Choose any available serial MMWR course below and follow the corresponding link to earn continuing education credit.
Having problems with Training and Continuing Education Online (TCEO)?
Use the 9 Simple Steps to Earn CE.
MMWR Recommendations and Reports: April 21, 2017 Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic Influenza — United States, 2017 (HTML Version) Course Number: WB2763 | CE Expiration Date: April 21, 2021 | Last Reviewed: February 8, 2019 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search MMWR CE On TCEO Print Choose any available MMWR course below and follow the corresponding link to earn continuing education credit.
Having problems with Training and Continuing Education Online (TCEO)?
Use the 9 Simple Steps to Earn CE.
MMWR Recommendations and Reports: April 21, 2017 Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic Influenza — United States, 2017 (HTML Version) Course Number: WB2763R | CE Expiration Date: April 21, 2021 | Disclosure In compliance with continuing education requirements, all presenters must disclose any financial or other associations with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters as well as any use of unlabeled product(s) or product(s) under investigational use.
CDC, our planners, content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters.
Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no bias.
Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a product under investigational use.
CDC did not accept commercial support for this educational activity.
No fees are charged for CDC’s CE activities.
Last Reviewed: April 30, 2020 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search MMWR Continuing Education: General Information Print Weekly Publications Serial Publications Weekly Publications MMWR has extended its Continuing Education (CE) to reports published in the Weekly Series.
CEs will be available the following Friday am after its release.
The course itself may be accessed on-line via the internet in two ways: The MMWR site which links to the TCEO site to obtain CE hours.
The TCEO site which links to the MMWR site for the actual course.
Goal The goal of this report is to be CDC’s primary voice for scientific publication of timely, reliable, authoritative, accurate, objective, and useful science-based public health information and recommendations to those in need of the information.
Objectives The objective of MMWR to (1) describe current (timely, reliable, authoritative accurate, objective, and useful science-based) public health information; (2) provide recommendations based on the information, and (3) describe the impact that the recommendations will make on public health.
Intended Audience Physicians, nurses, health educators, other public health workers Accreditation Statements CME: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME®) to provide continuing medical education for physicians.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention designates this enduring material for a maximum of 0.5 AMA PRA Category 0 Credits™.
Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.
CNE: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited as a provider of Continuing Nursing Education by the American Nurses Credentialing Center’s Commission on Accreditation.
This activity provides 0.5 contact hours.
CEU: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is authorized by IACET to offer 0.1 CEU’s for this program.
CECH: Sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a designated provider of continuing education contact hours (CECH)in health education by the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc.
This program is designated for Certified Health Education Specialists (CHES®) and/or Master Certified Health Education Specialists (MCHES®) to receive up to 0.5 total Category I continuing education contact hours.
Maximum advanced level continuing education contact hours available are 0.
CDC provider number 98614.
DISCLOSURE: In compliance with continuing education requirements, all presenters must disclose any financial or other associations with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters as well as any use of unlabeled product(s) or product(s) under investigational use.
CDC, our planners, content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters.
Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no bias.
Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a product under investigational use.
CDC did not accept commercial support for this educational activity.
To receive continuing education (CE): Complete the activity Complete the Evaluation at  Pass the posttest at _100_% at  FEES: No fees are charged for CDC’s CE activities.
Serial Publications Select Serial Publications for a list of available courses.
No fee is charged for participating in these CE activities.
Last Reviewed: January 29, 2019 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System What is Case Surveillance?
Case Surveillance Modernization Infectious Disease Tables Non-Infectious Disease Data Technical Resource Center Case Surveillance in Action Contact Us VIEW ALL Related Topics: NDC Application View All MAY 27, 2025 New Home for NNDSS Weekly and Annual Tables KEY POINTS In January 2025, CDC moved the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) weekly and annual data tables to CDC Stacks and data.cdc.gov.
CDC previously shared weekly and annual data from NNDSS on the Wide-ranging ONline Data for Epidemiologic Research (WONDER) platform.
The location change makes CDC’s internal data infrastructure more compatible, efficient, and responsive across the agency.
New locations for weekly and annual data In January 2025, CDC's Wide-ranging ONline Data for Epidemiologic Research (WONDER) platform migrated to a new Azure cloud environment, where it previously shared weekly and annual NNDSS data.
This change helps make CDC's internal data infrastructure more compatible, efficient, and responsive across the agency.
As a result of the WONDER migration, CDC has moved PDF and text versions of the weekly and annual NNDSS data tables to new locations on our website: Annual data tables can be found on CDC Stacks, an online repository available to public health professionals, researchers, and the public.
Weekly tables can be found on CDC Stacks or data.cdc.gov, a publicly available data catalog of data resources However, CDC WONDER will continue to host the interactive NNDSS annual summary data query.
Accessing the data To help users learn how to access data in their new locations, we will follow an example of a user who wants to find weekly data for pertussis in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) week 49 in December 2024.
Learn more about MMWR weeks.
To find NNDSS data on CDC Stacks: Go to CDC Stacks and select National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) from the drop-down menu under "Search our Collections" near the upper left side of the page.
Hit Search.
This will take you to the NNDSS collection landing page.
On the left-hand side, select Genre, Publisher Year, and Topic to filter the search results.
For example, to find weekly tables of pertussis cases for December 2024 (week 49), select Weekly Tables, 2024, and Pertussis to locate the desired table.
Sort the results by Published Date in descending order to see the most recent tables.
Alternatively, type pertussis 2024 into the search bar at the very top of the NNDSS collection landing page (Look for the text labeled 'Search Stack Collections').
For help with using CDC Stacks, visit the Help Center or email publishinghd@cdc.gov.
To search weekly tables on data.cdc.gov: Go to data.cdc.gov and select National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System.
Scroll down and select this table to access the latest weekly data: NNDSS Weekly Data; the other tables will be kept for archival purposes.
In the upper right-hand corner, select Actions.
A drop down will appear.
Choose Query Data to filter the information of interest.
In the Filter section, go to the Select a column to filter menu and select Label from the drop-down list.
Then, type pertussis in the box marked Search.
Click the + sign next to the And button.
In the drop-down list, select Current MMWR year and type 2024 in the Search box.
Click the + sign again next to the And button.
In the drop-down list, select MMWR week and type 49 in the Search box.
Click the Apply button at the bottom of the page.
There should be 70 rows of data available at the top of the screen.
At the top of the page, click the Export button to download a comma-separated value CSV file or another file type.
For help using data.cdc.gov, email edavplatformdatagroup@cdc.gov.
Questions and feedback CDC recognizes that NNDSS users have relied on the WONDER application to get the data they need for decision-making and analysis.
CDC will continue to provide PDF tables and versions of the files that are publicly accessible.
CDC welcomes feedback and questions from users as we plan for future improvements.
Please contact NNDSSWeb@cdc.gov to learn more.
ON THIS PAGE New locations for weekly and annual data Accessing the data Questions and feedback SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) NNDSS receives and shares case data from state, local, and territorial health departments to help public health monitor, control, and prevent serious diseases.
View All About National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System What is Case Surveillance?
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
NPIs, also known as community mitigation measures, are actions that persons and communities can take to help slow the spread of respiratory virus infections, including seasonal and pandemic influenza viruses.
These guidelines replace the 2007 Interim Pre-pandemic Planning Guidance: Community Strategy for Pandemic Influenza Mitigation in the United States — Early, Targeted, Layered Use of Nonpharmaceutical Interventions (
Several elements remain unchanged from the 2007 guidance, which described recommended NPIs and the supporting rationale and key concepts for the use of these interventions during influenza pandemics.
NPIs can be phased in, or layered, on the basis of pandemic severity and local transmission patterns over time.
Categories of NPIs include personal protective measures for everyday use (e.g., voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene); personal protective measures reserved for influenza pandemics (e.g., voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and use of face masks in community settings when ill); community measures aimed at increasing social distancing (e.g., school closures and dismissals, social distancing in workplaces, and postponing or cancelling mass gatherings); and environmental measures (e.g., routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces).
Several new elements have been incorporated into the 2017 guidelines.
First, to support updated recommendations on the use of NPIs, the latest scientific evidence available since the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 pandemic has been added.
Second, a summary of lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response is presented to underscore the importance of broad and flexible prepandemic planning.
Third, a new section on community engagement has been included to highlight that the timely and effective use of NPIs depends on community acceptance and active participation.
Fourth, to provide new or updated pandemic assessment and planning tools, the novel influenza virus pandemic intervals tool, the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool, the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework, and a set of prepandemic planning scenarios are described.
Finally, to facilitate implementation of the updated guidelines and to assist states and localities with prepandemic planning and decision-making, this report links to six supplemental prepandemic NPI planning guides for different community settings that are available online (
Top Introduction Nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) are strategies for disease, injury, and exposure control ( ).
They include actions that persons and communities can take to help slow the spread of respiratory viruses (e.g., seasonal and pandemic influenza viruses).
These actions include personal protective measures for everyday use (e.g., staying home when ill, covering coughs and sneezes, and washing hands often) and communitywide measures reserved for pandemics and aimed at reducing opportunities for exposure (e.g., coordinated closures and dismissals of child care facilities and schools and cancelling mass gatherings).
When a novel influenza A virus with pandemic potential emerges, NPIs can be used in conjunction with available pharmaceutical interventions (antiviral medications) to help slow its transmission in communities, especially when a vaccine is not yet widely available.
Given current vaccine technology, a pandemic vaccine might not be available for up to 6 months ( ).
NPIs can be used before a pandemic is declared in areas where a novel influenza A virus is detected and during a pandemic.
These 2017 guidelines provide evidence-based recommendations on the use of NPIs in mitigating the effects of pandemic influenza.
These guidelines update and expand the 2007 strategy ( Top Purpose The purpose of these guidelines is to help state, tribal, local, and territorial health departments with prepandemic planning and decision-making by providing updated recommendations on the use of NPIs.
These recommendations have incorporated lessons learned from the federal, state, and local responses to the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 virus pandemic (hereafter referred to as the 2009 H1N1 pandemic) and findings from research.
Communities, families and individuals, employers, and schools can create plans that use these interventions to help slow the spread of a pandemic and prevent disease and death.
Specific goals for implementing NPIs early in a pandemic include slowing acceleration of the number of cases in a community, reducing the peak number of cases during the pandemic and related health care demands on hospitals and infrastructure, and decreasing overall cases and health effects ( Figure 1).
A more difficult decision is how and when to implement community-level NPIs that might be warranted but are more disruptive (e.g., temporary school closures and dismissals, social distancing in workplaces and the community, and cancellation of mass gatherings) (Table 1).
These decisions are made by state and local officials on the basis of conditions in the applicable jurisdictions, with guidance from CDC (according to pandemic severity and potential efficacy) and governing authorities (1).
Prepandemic planning, along with community engagement, is an essential component of these decisions ( Table 2).
The decision regarding whether and when to recommend additional NPIs is another component ( Table 3).
State and local public health departments might use certain influenza surveillance indicators to help decide when to consider implementing NPIs such as school closures and dismissals and other social distancing measures in schools, workplaces, and public settings during an influenza pandemic.
The choice of influenza surveillance indicators might differ among states and localities, depending on the availability and capacity of their public health resources.
Examples of possible influenza surveillance indicators include additional patient visits to health care providers for influenza-like illness (ILI) and increased geographic spread of influenza within a state.
Indicators for school closures and dismissals might include increased school absenteeism rates or the earliest laboratory-confirmed influenza cases among students, teachers, or staff members.
Indicators that might help confirm that NPI implementation should continue include increased influenza-associated hospitalizations or increases in adult or pediatric deaths attributed to influenza.
Additional information about NPI prepandemic planning is available (supplementary Chapter 1 
Top Background An influenza pandemic occurs when a novel virus emerges for which the majority of the population has little or no immunity.
Influenza pandemics are facilitated by sustained human-to-human transmission, and the infection spreads worldwide over a relatively short period (2).
The first influenza pandemic of the 21st century began in 2009, 2 years after the 2007 strategy for prepandemic planning was published.
Lessons learned during the response to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic underscored the importance of a flexible approach to the use of NPIs, particularly during the early stages of a pandemic, and led to the development of new tools for assessing pandemic severity and prepandemic planning ( Box 1).
Lessons Learned from the 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Response The 2009 H1N1 pandemic was a reminder to be prepared for the unpredictable nature of pandemics.
Knowing in advance which subtype of pandemic virus will emerge is impossible, as is where and when it will emerge, how quickly the virus will spread, how severe the illness will be, and who will be the most affected.
Because of this unpredictability, prepandemic planning must be broad and flexible.
The 2007 strategy for prepandemic planning was developed with the assumption that the next influenza pandemic would be severe, like the 1957 pandemic, which was characterized by high transmissibility and medium clinical severity.
When the 2007 strategy was developed, the primary concern was that a pandemic virus might evolve from the highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus, a virus that reemerged in Asia in 2003 in domestic poultry and spread to Africa, the Middle East, and Europe among poultry, with sporadic zoonotic transmission (37).
Moreover, CDC thought that this virus would most likely emerge overseas, providing the United States with time to prepare for a domestic response, including making use of prepandemic H5N1 vaccine in CDC’s Strategic National Stockpile.
Instead, the 2009 pandemic influenza A virus turned out to be a novel H1N1 virus that appears to have emerged in southern Mexico and was first identified in two persons in California (13).
Although the 2009 H1N1 pandemic in the United States was moderate in terms of overall morbidity and mortality among the U.S.
general population, severe outcomes from H1N1pdm09 virus infection were more common among children, young adults, and specific groups at risk for serious complications (e.g., pregnant women) than among older adults (Box 1).
Although the emergence of the H1N1pdm09 virus prompted development of pandemic vaccines, a pandemic vaccine was not available until October 2009, 6 months after the initial report that identified the pandemic virus.
Another lesson learned about NPI implementation during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic was that rapidly changing guidance can create confusion and difficulties during implementation (Box 1) (30,31).
Nevertheless, field studies found that school-related NPIs, including school closures recommended to mitigate the impact of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic during spring 2009, were considered acceptable and feasible for most parents and caregivers, even when parents had to miss work and in the absence of free or reduced-cost school lunches for students (28,38–41).
Other interventions that reduced the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus in some communities included hand hygiene (42), regularly scheduled school summer breaks (19), and social distancing measures, such as cancelling mass gatherings and closing public places (22).
Community Engagement The 2009 H1N1 pandemic underscored that effective prepandemic planning requires the involvement of public health and local leaders, employers, organizations, and stakeholders and is essential to ensure timely and effective use of NPIs to limit disease spread during a pandemic ( Box 2).
Effective use of NPIs depends on the acceptance and participation of individual persons who implement personal protective measures and of communities that implement communitywide measures such as temporary school closures ( ).
The 2007 guidance took into account the results of a 2006 opinion poll conducted with a representative national sample of 1,697 adults aged ≥18 years.
The results indicated that when faced with an outbreak of pandemic influenza, the majority of persons in the United States would be willing to make major changes in their lives and cooperate with public health recommendations on the use of NPIs ( ).
Findings were similar in a follow-up study during the 2009–2010 H1N1 pandemic (Box 1) ( ).
For example, in 2006, 85% of the respondents said that they and all members of their household would stay home for 7–10 days if another household member were ill with pandemic influenza.
The H1N1 opinion polls also identified barriers to implementation of NPIs among persons and communities (e.g., the ability to stay home when ill, job security, and income protection) ( ).
States and localities could establish local planning councils or hold public engagement meetings that address these and other issues related to public health preparedness, pandemic education, and planning.
States and local communities also can draw on planning guidance provided in the CDC Public Health Preparedness Capabilities: National Standards for State and Local Planning, which lists NPIs as one of 15 capabilities ( ).
Additional information about pandemic influenza and NPI community engagement is available (supplementary Chapter 1 
New Tools for Prepandemic Planning and Pandemic Assessment Novel Influenza Virus Pandemic Intervals In 2014, CDC updated its 2008 guidance on pandemic intervals to include six intervals that describe influenza pandemic progression in a way that supports flexible prepandemic preparedness and response.
The intervals include 1) investigation of novel influenza cases, 2) recognition of potential for ongoing transmission, 3) initiation, 4) acceleration, 5) deceleration of the pandemic wave, and 6) preparation for a future pandemic wave (43).
These intervals can be used during prepandemic planning and can serve as a platform for public health decision-making and actions during the beginning of a potential influenza pandemic.
Each interval is associated with particular response activities, including implementation of select NPIs during the initiation and acceleration intervals and coordinated discontinuation of select community-level NPIs reserved for pandemics during the deceleration interval ( Figure 2) ( Table 4).
Although the six-interval framework describes the sequence of pandemic disease evolution over time, the framework does not characterize the transmissibility of the virus or the clinical severity of the outbreak.
Therefore, CDC has developed additional tools for pandemic planning and response, including the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (supplementary Chapter 2   and the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF).
Additional information about the pandemic intervals is available (supplementary Chapter 2 
Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework An influenza pandemic can range from mild to extremely severe in terms of clinical severity and transmission rate.
When a pandemic emerges, public health authorities should assess its projected impact and recommend rapid action to reduce virus transmission, protect populations at high risk for complications, and minimize societal disruption.
As observed during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response, attack rates and case-fatality ratios can be difficult to measure early in a pandemic because of variations in care-seeking behavior and testing practices; not everyone seeks care for their illness, and not everyone is tested and receives a diagnosis of pandemic influenza.
As a result, severe cases might be more likely to be reported, resulting in an overestimate of the case-hospitalization or case-fatality ratio.
Tools for prepandemic planning have been updated and augmented based on that experience, and the Pandemic Severity Index in the 2007 guidance has been replaced with PSAF.
PSAF uses multiple clinical and epidemiologic indicators to provide a more comprehensive assessment of the transmissibility and clinical severity of an emerging pandemic.
Whereas the Pandemic Severity Index was based on the assumption that a future pandemic would cause an illness rate of 30% in the U.S.
population and relied on an assessment of case-fatality ratios to determine severity of an evolving pandemic, PSAF incorporates multiple measures of clinical severity (e.g., case-fatality ratios, case-hospitalization ratios, and deaths-hospitalizations ratios) and viral transmissibility (e.g., secondary household attack rates, school attack rates, workplace attack rates, community attack rates, or all of these, as well as rates of emergency department and outpatient visits for ILI) (44).
When a pandemic begins, in the United States or anywhere in the world, CDC makes an initial assessment of viral transmissibility and clinical severity on the basis of these multiple PSAF measures ( Table 5) (44).
On the basis of the initial assessment, CDC recommends that affected U.S.
jurisdictions respond (and other jurisdictions prepare to respond).
Although data are limited during the initial 3–4 weeks after the emergence of a pandemic virus, these early data are compiled into a broad, preliminary assessment.
CDC uses PSAF scores of viral transmissibility and clinical severity to place the pandemic within one of four assessment quadrants ( Figure 3).
Depending on the surveillance capacity in the location where the novel virus emerges and first spreads, 4–8 weeks or longer might be required to accrue sufficient data for a refined assessment of an evolving pandemic.
Once data are available, the refined assessment is used to more precisely characterize the clinical severity and transmissibility of the pandemic virus ( Figure 4) ( Table 6).
These initial and refined assessments of pandemic severity are used, in coordination with state and local public health partners, to guide the use of NPI measures.
Additional information about PSAF is available (supplementary Chapter 2 
Top Methods Guidelines Development Process This 2017 update consists of three separate documents: this report and two supplementary documents ( and 
This report provides a brief introduction to pandemic influenza and NPIs; describes the 2007 strategy and the purpose of the updates, particularly after the 2009 H1N1 pandemic; outlines the methods used to develop this update and describe the evidence considered for NPI use during an influenza pandemic; presents CDC’s NPI recommendations; and discusses key areas for further NPI research.
The two supplementary documents contain more specific and detailed information about pandemic influenza and NPIs.
One document (Technical Report 1  is divided into chapters and provides an introduction to and overview of NPIs, a description of the new tools developed for pandemic influenza planning and assessment, and a toolbox describing the NPI evidence base, implementation issues, and research gaps.
The second document (Technical Report 2  consists of several appendices that provide a glossary of terms, a detailed description of the methods used for developing the NPI recommendations, a comprehensive summary table of the NPI body of evidence, and a list of tools and resources for pandemic influenza planning and preparedness.
This 2017 update was developed through collaboration involving input from several sources, including peer-reviewed scientific literature, current research, CDC subject-matter experts, and external stakeholders (e.g., federal agencies, public health officials, and business and education partners).
Development of these updated guidelines involved participation by multiple CDC groups (e.g., the Community Mitigation Guidelines Work Group and the coordination, abstraction, and consultation teams), as well as a group of external stakeholders who reviewed a document, summarizing the overall direction and key principles and concepts of the guidelines.
Input from the work group members, subject-matter experts, and stakeholders was considered and incorporated during the creation of the 2017 planning guidelines.
The guidelines were developed during October 2011–October 2016 ( Table 7).
The complete list of contributors and their roles in the process are available (supplementary Appendix 2 
Use of NPIs During Influenza Pandemics Ten years ago, when the 2007 strategy was being developed, the evidence for the use of NPIs during influenza pandemics was limited, consisting primarily of historical analyses and contemporary observations rather than controlled scientific studies (45,46).
These analyses and observations were supplemented by modeling studies that used historical data to evaluate NPI use in U.S.
cities during the 1918 pandemic (47,48) or that simulated pandemic scenarios as they might occur in the future (49–51).
The simulations, like the historical analyses, generally supported the effectiveness of early, targeted, and phased-in (layered) use of multiple NPIs§ in preventing spread of disease, especially when used in combination with antiviral medications (46,49).
This conclusion seemed plausible, confirming the presumption that individual, partially effective NPIs act in complementary ways to decrease various factors that facilitate the spread of influenza under different circumstances and settings (52).
However, the NPI modeling studies had substantial limitations, including lack of data supporting assumptions about the effectiveness of individual NPIs, economic and social costs of NPIs, and likely rates of compliance (46,49,53).
In 2016, the evidence supporting the effectiveness of NPIs, both when used alone and in combination, was more substantial and included controlled studies evaluating different NPIs.
New modeling studies based on data collected during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response also became available.
This update is based on approximately 191 journal articles written in English and published from 1990 through September 2016 that focused on personal protective measures in general; school closure effectiveness and unintended consequences; school absenteeism; spread of disease in child care facilities, colleges, and universities; impact of mass gatherings; and role and impact of NPIs in non–health care workplace settings.
These articles were reviewed, abstracted, and synthesized.
To assess the strength of the evidence, a five-step NPI rating scheme process was developed by adapting and applying the approach of the Guide to Community Preventive Services (The Community Guide)  ).
Additional information about the NPI rating scheme process is available (supplementary Appendices 3 and 4 
The selected articles were organized into three groups: 1) personal NPIs (personal protective measures for everyday use and personal protective measures reserved for influenza pandemics); 2) community NPIs (social distancing measures and school closures and dismissals); and 3) environmental NPIs (surface cleaning measures) ( Table 8).
Key steps included selecting the relevant literature, abstracting and synthesizing the evidence, and assessing the evidence quality (both individual study quality and quality of the body of evidence).
A recommendation was formulated based on the evidence of effectiveness for each NPI.
The strength of NPI recommendations took into consideration the effectiveness of the intervention, the ease of implementation (including unwanted consequences), and the importance of the intervention as a public health strategy.
Additional information about the NPI evidence base is available (supplementary Chapter 3  and supplementary Appendix 5 
Top Recommendations on the Use of Personal, Community, and Environmental NPIs NPIs routinely recommended for prevention of respiratory virus transmission, such as seasonal influenza, include personal protective measures for everyday use (i.e., voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene) and environmental surface cleaning measures (i.e., routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects).
During an influenza pandemic, these NPIs are recommended regardless of the pandemic severity level.
Additional personal and community NPIs also might be recommended.
Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics include voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and use of face masks in community settings when ill.
Community NPIs might include temporary closures or dismissals of child care facilities and schools with students in grades kindergarten through 12 (K–12), as well as other social distancing measures that increase the physical space between people (e.g., workplace measures such as replacing in-person meetings with teleconferences or modifying, postponing, or cancelling mass gatherings) ( Figure 5) (Table 1).
Local decisions about NPI selection and timing involve consideration of overall pandemic severity and local conditions (1) and require flexibility and possible modifications as the pandemic progresses and new information becomes available.
Updated recommendations on the use of NPIs to help slow the spread and decrease the impact of an influenza pandemic are provided, as is information on the rationale for using each NPI as part of a comprehensive public health strategy for pandemic response and the appropriate settings and use for each NPI according to the severity of the pandemic ( Table 9).¶ The recommendations that follow are considered an update to the existing recommendations in the 2007 guidance because the same set of NPIs has been maintained and recommended for use early in a pandemic.
However, the difference between the guidance issued in 2007 and in 2017 is the clear delineation of NPIs into two categories: 1) NPIs recommended at all times and 2) NPIs recommended for use only during pandemics (based on the level of pandemic severity and local conditions).
The 2017 update also provides additional evidence to support the NPI recommendations.
Personal NPIs NPIs that can be implemented by individual persons include the following: Personal protective measures for everyday use: These include voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene.
Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics: These include voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and use of face masks in community settings when ill.
Personal Protective Measures for Everyday Use Personal protective measures are preventive actions that can be used daily to slow the spread of respiratory viruses ( supplementary Chapter 3 
These measures include the following: Voluntary home isolation (i.e., staying home when ill or self-isolation): Persons with influenza stay home for at least 24 hours after a fever or signs of a fever (chills, sweating, and feeling warm or flushed)** are gone ( except to obtain medical care or other necessities.†† To ensure that the fever is gone, patients’ temperature should be measured in the absence of medication that lowers fever (e.g., acetaminophen or ibuprofen).
In addition to fever, common influenza symptoms include cough or chest discomfort, muscle or body aches, headache, and fatigue.
Persons also might experience sneezing, a runny or stuffy nose, sore throat, vomiting, and diarrhea (
Respiratory etiquette: Persons cover coughs and sneezes, preferably with a tissue, and then dispose of tissues and disinfect hands immediately after a cough or sneeze, or (if a tissue is not available) cough or sneeze into a shirt sleeve.
Touching the eyes, nose, and mouth should be avoided to help slow the spread of germs (
Hand hygiene: Persons perform regular and thorough hand washing with soap and water (or use alcohol-based hand sanitizers containing at least 60% ethanol or isopropanol when soap and water are not available).
Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Most persons infected with an influenza virus might become infectious 1 day before the onset of symptoms and remain infectious up to 5–7 days after becoming ill (54,55).
However, studies found that infants and immunocompromised persons might shed influenza viruses for prolonged periods (up to 21 days and a mean of 19 days, respectively) (56,57).
The effectiveness of personal protective measures depends on their ability to interrupt virus transmission from one person to another.
Voluntary home isolation, which is a form of patient isolation, prevents an ill person from infecting other people outside of their household.§§ Respiratory etiquette reduces the dispersion of droplets contaminated with influenza virus being propelled through the air by coughing or sneezing.
Hand hygiene reduces the transmission of influenza viruses that occurs when one person touches another (e.g., with a contaminated hand).
Contamination also can occur through self-inoculation via fomite transmission (indirect contact transmission) when persons touch a contaminated surface and then touch their nose with a contaminated hand.
A study conducted in households in Bangkok, Thailand, found that increased handwashing reduced surface contamination with influenza virus, which lowered the potential for self-inoculation via fomite transmission (58).
Additional studies found that influenza viruses can remain viable on the human hand for roughly 3–5 minutes (59) and that influenza viruses can remain on fingers for 30 minutes after contamination (60).
Settings and use.
Voluntary home isolation involves persons remaining at home when ill with influenza.
Respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene are recommended in homes and in all other community settings, including schools and workplaces.
All three personal protective measures are considered everyday preventive actions that should be implemented year-round but that are especially important during annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics ( Table 10).
Use of these personal protective measures might result in some secondary (unintended or unwanted) consequences (e.g., concerns about job security for ill persons who lack paid sick leave or skin irritations due to frequent hand washing).
CDC recommendations Voluntary home isolation: CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons (staying home when ill) year-round and especially during annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics.
Respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene: CDC recommends respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene in all community settings, including homes, child care facilities, schools, workplaces, and other places where people gather, year-round and especially during annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics.
Personal Protective Measures Reserved for Pandemics Voluntary home isolation, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene are recommended during both annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics.
Additional personal protective measures that might be recommended during pandemics include voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and the use of face masks in community settings when ill.
These measures might contribute to reductions in transmission of pandemic influenza viruses when the level of pandemic severity and local conditions warrant their use (supplementary Chapter 3 
Voluntary Home Quarantine Voluntary home quarantine of non-ill household members of persons with influenza (also called self-quarantine or household quarantine) helps prevent disease spread from households to schools, workplaces, and other households because those household members have been exposed to the influenza virus.
Exposed household members of symptomatic persons (with confirmed or probable pandemic influenza) should stay home for up to 3 days (the estimated incubation period for seasonal influenza) (61) starting from their initial contact with the ill person.
If they then become ill, they should practice voluntary home isolation (i.e., they should remain at home until recovered as discussed previously; 
For certain exposed household members (e.g., those at high risk for influenza complications or with severe immune deficiencies), guidelines should be consulted regarding the prophylactic use of antiviral medications (
Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Voluntary home quarantine might help slow a pandemic by reducing community transmission from households with a person who has influenza because the exposed household members are at increased risk for infection.
Furthermore, certain infected (but not yet symptomatic) household members could begin shedding influenza virus at least a day before exhibiting symptoms and could infect friends, neighbors, and others in the community (e.g., at school or work) before becoming symptomatic.
Therefore, all members of a household with a symptomatic person (with confirmed or probable pandemic influenza) might be asked to stay home for a specified period of time (up to 3 days) to assess for early signs and symptoms of pandemic influenza virus infection.
If other household members become ill during this period, then the time for voluntary home quarantine might need to be extended for another incubation period.
The evidence for voluntary home quarantine, particularly when used in combination with other NPIs, includes a systematic literature review, historical analyses of the 1918 pandemic, and mathematical modeling studies (supplementary Chapter 3  and supplementary Appendix 5 
Settings and use.
Voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members might be recommended during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics (Table 10) to help reduce the chance of transmitting the virus to others outside of the household.
Advance planning is needed to minimize potential secondary consequences for persons who have special cultural, economic, legal, mental, physical, or social status needs (e.g., older adults who depend on necessary community-based services such as home-delivered meals and transportation to health care services).
Other secondary consequences might include missed work and loss of income for persons whose employers do not have paid sick leave policies that include home quarantine during pandemics.
CDC recommendations Voluntary home quarantine: CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members as a personal protective measure during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics in combination with other personal protective measures such as respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene.
If a member of the household is symptomatic with confirmed or probable pandemic influenza, then all members of the household should stay home for up to 3 days (the estimated incubation period for seasonal influenza),¶¶ starting from their initial contact with the ill person, to monitor for influenza symptoms.
Use of Face Masks in Community Settings Face masks (disposable surgical, medical, or dental procedure masks) are widely used by health care workers to prevent respiratory infections both in health care workers and patients.
They also might be worn by ill persons during severe, very severe, or extreme pandemics to prevent spread of influenza to household members and others in the community.
However, little evidence supports the use of face masks by well persons in community settings, although some trials conducted during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic found that early combined use of face masks and other NPIs (such as hand hygiene) might be effective (supplementary Chapter 3 
Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Face masks provide a physical barrier that prevents the transmission of influenza viruses from an ill person to a well person by blocking large-particle respiratory droplets propelled by coughing or sneezing.
Face mask use by well persons is not routinely needed in most situations to prevent acquiring the influenza virus.
However, use of face masks by well persons might be beneficial in certain situations (e.g., when persons at high risk for influenza complications cannot avoid crowded settings or parents are caring for ill children at home).
Face mask use by well persons also might reduce self-inoculation (e.g., touching the nose with the hand after touching a contaminated surface).
Settings and use.
Disposable surgical, medical, and dental procedure masks are used widely in health care settings to prevent exposure to respiratory infections.
Face masks have few secondary consequences (e.g., discomfort or difficulty breathing) when worn properly and consistently, and face masks sized for children are available.
(Additional information about face masks is available at  and  .) CDC recommendations Use of face masks by ill persons: CDC might recommend the use of face masks by ill persons as a source control measure during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics when crowded community settings cannot be avoided (e.g., when adults and children with influenza symptoms seek medical attention) or when ill persons are in close contact with others (e.g., when symptomatic persons share common spaces with other household members or symptomatic postpartum women care for and nurse their infants).
Some evidence indicates that face mask use by ill persons might protect others from infection.
Use of face masks by well persons: CDC does not routinely recommend the use of face masks by well persons in the home or other community settings as a means of avoiding infection during influenza pandemics except under special, high-risk circumstances (
For example, during a severe pandemic, pregnant women and other persons at high risk for influenza complications might use face masks if unable to avoid crowded settings, especially if no pandemic vaccine is available.
In addition, persons caring for ill family members at home (e.g., a parent of a child exhibiting influenza symptoms) might use face masks to avoid infection when in close contact with a patient, just as health care personnel wear masks in health care settings.
Community NPIs NPIs that can be implemented by communities include the following: School closures and dismissals: These include temporary closures and dismissals of child care facilities, K–12 schools, and institutions of higher education.
Social distancing measures: These include measures for schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings.
School Closures and Dismissals In the event of a pandemic, state and local public health authorities play an important role in protecting the school community and should establish and maintain partnerships with district and school leaders, school emergency operations planning teams, and local municipality leaders (e.g., mayors).
Public health authorities are a credible source of information, have multiple (often free) resources available for information awareness campaigns, and provide guidance for increasing school response measures.
Depending on the severity of the pandemic, these measures might range from everyday preventive actions to preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals.
A school closure means closing a school and sending all the students and staff members home, whereas during a school dismissal, a school might stay open for staff members while the children stay home.
Preemptive school dismissals can be used to disrupt transmission of influenza before many students and staff members become ill.
Coordinated dismissals refer to the simultaneous or sequential closing of schools in a jurisdiction.
Thus, preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals can be used early during an influenza pandemic to prevent virus transmission in schools and surrounding communities by reducing close contact among the following groups (supplementary Chapter 3  Children in child care centers and preschools School-aged children and teens in K–12 schools Young adults in institutions of higher education During a dismissal, the school facilities are kept open, which allows teachers to develop and deliver lessons and materials, thus maintaining continuity of teaching and learning, and allows other staff members to continue to provide services and help with additional response efforts.
School closures and dismissals might be coupled with social distancing measures (e.g., cancelling sporting events and other mass gatherings) to reduce out-of-school social contact among children when schools are closed.
Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Preventing the spread of disease in educational settings among children and young adults reduces the risk for infection for these age groups and slows virus transmission in the community.
Components of the strategy might include preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals implemented during the earliest stages of a pandemic, before many students and staff members become ill.
Preemptive, coordinated dismissals can be implemented by the following facilities for the following reasons: Child care facilities and K–12 schools Children have higher influenza attack rates than adults (62) and are infectious for a longer period than adults (63,64).
Influenza transmission is common in schools and contributes to school absenteeism and parental absenteeism from work (65,66).
The presence of school-aged children in a household is a risk factor for influenza virus infection in families (62,65,67).
Social contact and mixing patterns among school-aged children differ substantially depending on the grade and school level, during various periods of the school day, between weekdays and weekends, and between regular school terms and holiday breaks (68–71).
Physical floor plans and intergrade activities (e.g., cafeteria size and lunch breaks) also can affect in-school social mixing (68).
Schoolchildren can introduce the influenza virus into a community, leading to increased rates of illness among their household or community contacts (72–74).
Institutions of higher education Influenza outbreaks on college and university campuses typically have high attack rates (44%–73%) (75–78) and cause substantial morbidity (79,80).
For example, during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, influenza spread rapidly through a university campus within 2 weeks (81); on another residential campus, one infected freshman initiated an outbreak that resulted in 226 laboratory-confirmed cases.
Freshmen were the main facilitators of the spread of the H1N1pdm09 virus because of their higher number and frequency of social contacts (82).
Influenza is more prevalent among residential students at boarding schools and colleges than among nonresidential students (78,83).
ILIs are common among college and university students and are associated with increased health care use, decreased health status, and impaired school performance (84).
Implementation of preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals during an evolving influenza pandemic might have one or more of the following three public health objectives***: Objective 1: To gain time for an initial assessment of transmissibility and clinical severity of the pandemic virus in the very early stage of its circulation in humans (closures for up to 2 weeks) Objective 2: To slow down the spread of the pandemic virus in areas that are beginning to experience local outbreaks and thereby allow time for the local health care system to prepare additional resources for responding to increased demand for health care services (closures up to 6 weeks) Objective 3: To allow time for pandemic vaccine production and distribution (closures up to 6 months) Two other types of school closures and dismissals might be implemented during a pandemic for public health or institutional reasons.
These interventions do not slow disease spread in the community; therefore, they are not considered NPIs.
They include the following: Selective school closures and dismissals: These might be implemented by schools that serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza,††† especially when transmission rates are high.
For example, a school that serves children with certain medical conditions or pregnant teens might decide to close while other schools in the area remain open.
Selective dismissals are intended to protect persons at high risk for influenza rather than to help reduce virus transmission within the community.
Reactive school closures and dismissals: These might be implemented when many students and staff members are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are arriving at school ill and being sent home.
For example, a child care center might close because it is unable to operate under these conditions.
Reactive dismissals, which might occur during outbreaks of seasonal influenza (85) and during pandemics (15), are unlikely to affect virus transmission because they typically take place after considerable, if not widespread, transmission has already occurred in the community.
For example, a 4-day reactive closure in a western Kentucky school district did not reduce ILI transmission in the rural community (86).
Similarly, closing 559 Michigan schools at least once during the fall wave (i.e., second wave) of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic had little effect on community levels of ILI (87).
For more information about preparing for influenza and the different types of dismissals, see CDC websites regarding 1) child care facilities ( ), 2) K–12 schools ( ), and 3) institutions of higher education ( ).
Settings and use.
Preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals might be implemented at child care facilities, K–12 schools, and institutions of higher education.
They are most likely to be implemented when an influenza pandemic is severe, very severe, or extreme (Table 10).
Secondary consequences include missed work and loss of income for parents who stay home from work to care for their children and missed opportunities to vaccinate school-aged children rapidly unless other mechanisms are considered.
CDC recommendations School closures and dismissals: CDC might recommend the use of preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics.
This recommendation is in accord with the conclusions of the U.S.
Community Preventive Services Task Force  ), which makes the following recommendations: The task force recommends preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a severe influenza pandemic.
The task force found insufficient evidence to recommend for or against preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a mild or moderate influenza pandemic.
In these instances, jurisdictions should make decisions that balance local benefits and potential harms.
Social Distancing Measures for Schools, Workplaces, and Mass Gatherings Social distancing measures can reduce virus transmission by decreasing the frequency and duration of social contact among persons of all ages.
These measures are common-sense approaches to limiting face-to-face contact, which reduces person-to-person transmission.
Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Social distancing measures that reduce opportunities for person-to-person virus transmission can help delay the spread and slow the exponential growth of a pandemic.
The optimal strategy is to implement these measures simultaneously in places where persons gather.
Although direct evidence is limited for the effectiveness of these measures, components of the strategy might include reducing social contacts at the following places: Schools: Children have higher influenza attack rates than adults, and influenza transmission is common in schools.
Workplaces: More than half of all U.S.
adults participate in the U.S workforce,§§§ and workers often share office space and equipment and have frequent face-to-face contact.
Influenza attack rates in working-age adults (aged 18–64 years) might be as high as 15.5% during a single influenza season (88).
Mass gatherings: Group events such as concerts, festivals, and sporting events bring people into close contact for extended periods (89–92).
A systematic literature review of respiratory disease outbreaks related to mass gatherings in the United States during 2005–2014 indicated that 40 of 72 different outbreaks were associated with state or county agriculture fairs and (zoonotic) transmission of influenza A H3N2v, and 25 outbreaks were associated with residential youth summer camps and person-to-person transmission of influenza A H1N1 (93).
An infected traveler attending a mass gathering might introduce influenza to a previously unaffected area, and a person who becomes infected at the event can further spread the infection after returning home (89,90,92,94–96).
Even when a circulating virus has a relatively low basic reproductive rate (R0), intensely crowded settings might lead to high secondary attack rates (92).
For example, during the 2013 Hajj (Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca) in Saudi Arabia, influenza A/H1N1 virus was found in only two Indonesians on arrival but spread to 25 persons from Africa, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia after the Hajj because of the extremely crowded conditions when performing rituals (97).
Multiple social distancing measures can be implemented simultaneously.
Although there is limited empirical evidence supporting the effectiveness of implementing any individual measure alone (other than school closures and dismissals), the evidence for implementing multiple social distancing measures in combination with other NPIs includes systematic literature reviews, historical analyses of the 1918 pandemic, and mathematical modeling studies (supplementary Chapter 3  and supplementary Appendix 5 
Settings and use.
Social distancing measures can be implemented in a range of community settings, including educational facilities, workplaces, and public places where people gather (e.g., parks, religious institutions, theaters, and sports arenas).
The choice of social distancing measure depends on the severity of the pandemic (Table 10).
Certain measures might be implemented with few secondary consequences (e.g., increased use of e-mail and teleconferences in some workplaces), whereas others might require advance planning (e.g., modification of mass gatherings).
Examples of practical measures that might reduce face-to-face contact in community settings include the following: If schools remain open during a pandemic, divide school classes into smaller groups of students and rearrange desks so students are spaced at least 3 feet (98) from each other in a classroom.
Offer telecommuting and replace in-person meetings in the workplace with video or telephone conferences.
Modify, postpone, or cancel mass gatherings.
CDC recommendations Social distancing measures: Even though the evidence base for the effectiveness of some of these measures is limited, CDC might recommend the simultaneous use of multiple social distancing measures to help reduce the spread of influenza in community settings (e.g., schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings) during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics while minimizing the secondary consequences of the measures.
Social distancing measures include the following: Increasing the distance to at least 3 feet (98) between persons when possible might reduce person-to person transmission.
This applies to apparently healthy persons without symptoms.
In the event of a very severe or extreme pandemic, this recommended minimal distance between people might be increased.
Persons in community settings who show symptoms consistent with influenza and who might be infected with (probable) pandemic influenza should be separated from well persons as soon as practical, be sent home, and practice voluntary home isolation.
Environmental NPIs: Environmental Surface Cleaning Measures Environmental surface cleaning measures can help eliminate influenza viruses from frequently touched surfaces and objects, including tables, door knobs, toys, desks, and computer keyboards.
These measures involve cleaning surfaces with detergent-based cleaners or disinfectants that have been registered with the Environmental Protection Agency.¶¶¶ Rationale for use as a public health strategy.
Although the percentage of influenza cases involving contact transmission (i.e., hand transfer of virus from contaminated objects to the eyes, nose, or mouth) is unknown, this mode of transmission is a recognized route of virus spread (99).
The routine use of cleaning measures that eliminate viruses from contaminated surfaces might reduce the spread of influenza viruses (supplementary Chapter 3 
Settings and use.
Environmental surface cleaning measures are recommended for frequently touched surfaces and objects in homes, child care facilities, schools, workplaces, and other places where persons gather.
These measures can be used for prevention of seasonal influenza and in all pandemic severity scenarios (Table 10).
Use of these measures might result in some secondary consequences (e.g., failing to read instruction labels before applying disinfectants to ensure that they are safe and appropriate to use or cleaning with poor ventilation during the application process).
CDC recommendations Environmental surface cleaning measures: CDC recommends environmental surface cleaning measures in all settings, including homes, schools, and workplaces, to remove influenza viruses from frequently touched surfaces and objects.
Use of these measures might help prevent transmission of various infectious agents, including seasonal and pandemic influenza ( 
Additional guidance is available from CDC for health care facilities ( ), schools ( and airline, travel, and transportation industries (
Top Discussion This report expands the NPI guidance presented in the 2007 report by providing evidence-based recommendations on the use of the same set of NPIs.
These NPIs include personal protective measures for everyday use and for use during a pandemic, community measures (school closures and dismissals and social distancing), and environmental surface cleaning measures.
Key Concepts Maintained from 2007 Guidance The rationale for and key concepts regarding the use of NPIs during influenza pandemics first presented in the 2007 guidance remain unchanged.
Because production of a pandemic vaccine can take up to 6 months and antiviral medications might be prioritized for treatment, NPIs are likely to be the only prevention tools available early in a pandemic.
Therefore, they are critical to slowing the spread of the pandemic influenza virus while a pandemic vaccine is under development.
Like the 2007 strategy, this 2017 update affirms the importance of prepandemic planning and preparedness for use of NPIs during a pandemic response and recommends the early, targeted, and simultaneous implementation of multiple NPIs to decrease influenza virus transmission.
Although community-level NPIs can help slow virus transmission, as supported by historical information (100), empirical observations (101), and mathematical modeling (102), these measures are likely to cause unwanted consequences by introducing new norms for social behavior (e.g., adopting precautionary health-protective behaviors such as limiting face-to-face contact with family and friends, only shopping for essential items, avoiding places where people congregate, or not using public transportation) (103), interrupting routine societal functions, and entailing additional costs.
If an evolving influenza pandemic is characterized by high clinical severity, the benefits of deploying NPIs, including those with greater potential for secondary consequences, are likely to outweigh potential harms.
The more difficult decision is determining how and when to implement the community-level NPIs that are more disruptive to society (e.g., temporary K–12 school closures) during pandemics of moderate severity.
In each locality, the goal should be to implement NPIs early enough and long enough to maximize effectiveness while minimizing economic and social costs to ensure that NPIs are commensurate to the pandemic severity.
New Elements Added in 2017 New elements in this report, in addition to the evidence-based NPI recommendations, include a summary of key lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response (Box 1), information on community engagement and preparedness (supplementary Chapter 1  and information on new or updated pandemic assessment tools (supplementary Chapter 2  which include the novel influenza virus pandemic intervals tool, the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool, and PSAF.
As described in the following sections, this report also presents two additional planning tools designed to assist states and localities in ensuring pandemic preparedness.
Prepandemic Planning Scenarios for NPI Implementation According to Pandemic Severity During the initial stages of a pandemic, CDC will use the PSAF tool to prepare an initial assessment of pandemic severity that provides early guidance on use of NPIs to help slow the transmission of the novel virus.
To facilitate the use of the initial assessment information by state and local health departments, CDC has provided a set of four prepandemic planning scenarios.
Each scenario aligns with one of the four assessment quadrants (Figure 3) and provides information on past influenza pandemics for comparison (Table 9).
These planning scenarios are designed to facilitate state and local prepandemic planning for NPI implementation according to pandemic severity (as classified by PSAF) ( Figure 6) (Tables 9 and 10).
After sufficient epidemiologic data are accrued and the refined assessment of pandemic severity becomes available, CDC will issue updated pandemic NPI guidance, which will be tailored more precisely to the specific pandemic.
Additional information about the planning scenarios and phasing of NPIs is available (supplementary Chapter 2 
Supplemental Prepandemic NPI Planning Guides The 2007 report included supplemental prepandemic NPI planning guides for individuals and families; child care programs, K–12 schools, and institutions of higher education; community- and faith-based organizations; and businesses and other workplaces.
These guides have been updated, and two new guides have been developed for public health communicators and event planners that address NPI communications and modification, postponement, or cancellation of mass gatherings.
These guides are intended to help operationalize the 2017 update and provide specific information that can assist different groups in their prepandemic planning and decision-making (
Future Research Although progress has been made since 2009 toward building the evidence base for use of NPIs to slow the spread of pandemic influenza, additional research is needed.
For personal NPIs, areas for additional research include evaluating the effects of increased frequency and quality of hand washing on influenza virus transmission, determining the role of infected persons who are not symptomatic in the transmission of influenza viruses in households, and assessing the effectiveness, acceptability, and feasibility of recommending face mask use by well persons in community settings as a means of avoiding infection during a pandemic.
For community NPIs, one topic for additional study involves gathering empirical data on social mixing patterns in schools and community settings.
These data can be used to create high-fidelity, high-resolution mathematical models of virus transmission in these settings to facilitate data-driven evaluations of different social distancing measures.
Another area of research for community NPIs involves assessing the potential secondary consequences (e.g., missed work) of select community-level measures (e.g., school closures) for families, communities, and society to assess the economic effects of these measures.
For environmental NPIs, additional research is needed to better understand surface contamination (e.g., which types of surfaces are more likely to be contaminated with influenza viruses) and identify situations in which surface cleaning should be emphasized (e.g., in households with confirmed influenza cases versus in healthy households).
Additional information about NPI research gaps is available (supplementary Chapter 3 
Top Conclusion The 2009 H1N1 pandemic provided an opportunity to test, in practice, the key concepts of NPIs in mitigating the impact of an influenza pandemic, just 2 years after the publication of the 2007 guidance.
As the experience from 2009 has shown, NPIs can be a critical component of pandemic influenza mitigation.
Although well-matched pandemic vaccines remain the main tool in reducing the risk of acquiring infection and in controlling the spread of a pandemic virus, vaccines might not be widely available for up to 6 months after the emergence of a pandemic influenza virus, given current vaccine production technology.
Furthermore, as during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, antiviral medications might be prioritized for treatment but not used for widespread chemoprophylaxis because of concerns about antiviral resistance and limited stockpiles of antiviral medications.
Therefore, NPIs might be the only prevention tools readily available for persons and communities to help slow transmission of an influenza virus during the initial stages of a pandemic.
However, individual NPIs might be only partially effective in limiting community transmission when implemented alone.
Thus, the most efficient implementation involves early, targeted, and layered use of multiple NPIs (
In addition, some community-level NPIs that potentially have the greatest epidemiologic effects on pandemic influenza virus transmission in communities, most notably school closures and dismissals, also are most likely to be associated with secondary (unwanted) consequences (104).
Hence, prepandemic planning, including engaging communities in planning activities well ahead of the next pandemic, is critical to enable appropriate local decision-making during the early stages of a pandemic.
After the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, evidence on the effectiveness and feasibility of NPIs expanded substantially.
A summary of the evidence in this 2017 update includes 2009 H1N1-related research (supplementary Appendix 5 
However, knowledge gaps remain and should be addressed by future research.
Further updates of these guidelines will be developed and issued when significant new information and evidence emerges about the effectiveness and feasibility of NPIs in mitigating the impact of pandemic influenza.
Top CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Work Group Alexandra Levitt, PhD, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC,; Stephanie Dopson, ScD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Mark Frank, MPH, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Rachel Holloway, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Lisa Koonin, DrPH, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Sonja Rasmussen, MD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Stephen Redd, MD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Christopher de la Motte Hurst, MPH, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Neha Kanade, MPH, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Jeanette Rainey, PhD, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Amra Uzicanin, MD, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Matthew Biggerstaff, MPH, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; Daniel Jernigan, MD, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; Carrie Reed, DSc, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Top CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Teams Coordination Team Alexandra Levitt, PhD, Office of Infectious Diseases; Narue Wright-Jegede, MPH, Neha Kanade, MPH, and Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
Abstraction Team Yao-Hsuan Chen, PhD, Charissa Dowdye, MPH, Hongjiang Gao, PhD, Narue Wright-Jegede, MPH, Neha Kanade, MPH, Jasmine Kenney, MPH, Erin Keyes, MPH, Tiffani Phelps, MPH, Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Jeanette Rainey, PhD, Jianrong Shi, MD, Karen Wong, MD, and Yenlik Zheteyeva, MD, Community Interventions for Infection Control Unit, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
Consultation Team Maleeka Glover, ScD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases; Rita Helfand, MD, Office of the Director, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases; Clive Brown, FRSPH, Martin Cetron, MD, Pamela Diaz, MD, Katrin Kohl, MD, PhD, David McAdam, MPA, and Jessica Reichard, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases; Bryan Christensen, PhD, Carolyn Gould, MD, Jeff Hageman, MD, John Jernigan, MD, and David Kuhar, MD, Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases; William Potts-Datema, MS, and Mary Vernon-Smiley, MD, Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention; Belinda Smith and Teresa Smith, RN, Health Communication Science Office, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases; Carolyn Bridges, MD, and Samuel Graitcer, MD, Immunization Services Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases; Joseph Bresee, MD, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases; Lisa Delaney, MD, and Chad Dowell, MD, Office of the Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health; Samuel Groseclose, DVM, Laura Leidel, MSN, and Carol Pertowski, MD, Office of the Director, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response; Steven Boedigheimer, MBA, Christa Singleton, MD, Theresa Smith, MD, and Todd Talbert, MA, Division of State and Local Readiness, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, CDC.
Top Conflict of Interest The CDC contributors wish to disclose that they have no financial or competing interests or other relationships that would unfairly influence these CDC guidelines and recommendations.
Top Corresponding author: Noreen Qualls, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
Telephone: 404-639-8195; E-mail: nqualls@cdc.gov.
Top 1Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 2Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 3Eagle Medical Services, San Antonio, Texas; 4Karna, Atlanta, Georgia; 5Division of State and Local Readiness, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 6Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia Top * The updated 2017 planning guidelines do not address pandemic vaccine development and distribution, use of respirators in community or health care settings during a pandemic, or travel restrictions during a pandemic.
Guidance and policies in these areas will be developed separately, as needed.
† In July 2009, ACIP recommended vaccination of several population groups, including children aged 6 months through 18 years because cases of H1N1 influenza had occurred in children who were in close contact with each other in school and child care settings (
§ The pandemic mitigation framework proposed in the 2007 strategy was based on the early, targeted, and layered use of multiple NPIs.
NPIs should be initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics grow exponentially, be targeted toward those at the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where the novel virus circulates), and be layered together to reduce community transmission as much as possible.
A list of NPIs that are recommended at all times and those that are reserved for pandemics is provided (Table 1).
¶ Influenza pandemics can range from mild to extreme in terms of rates of viral transmission and clinical severity, as described in the four prepandemic planning scenarios developed by CDC.
A very severe or extreme pandemic, such as the 1918 pandemic, is characterized by high to very high transmissibility and clinical severity.
A severe pandemic, such as the pandemics of 1957 and 1968, is characterized by high transmissibility and low to medium clinical severity.
A mild or moderate pandemic, such as the 2009 pandemic, is characterized by low to medium transmissibility and clinical severity.
** Although many authorities use either 100°F or 100.4°F (37.8°C) as indicative of fever, this number can vary depending on factors such as the method of measurement and the age of the person.
Therefore, other values for fever could be appropriate.
CDC has public health recommendations that are based on the presence (or absence) of fever (i.e., persons’ temperature is not higher than their own normal temperature).
†† Guidance for caring for persons at home who have influenza symptoms is available at 
§§ Additional information about isolation and quarantine is available at 
¶¶ If the incubation period for the next pandemic were shorter or longer than 3 days, CDC would amend the recommendation accordingly.
*** Additional information on the use of preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals of different durations is available (supplementary Chapter 3 
Those at high risk also include persons with asthma, neurological and neurodevelopmental conditions, chronic lung disease, and heart disease; disorders of the blood, endocrine system, kidney, or liver; metabolic disorders; and weakened immune systems from disease or medication.
§§§ As of September 2016, the U.S.
workforce included 62.9% of the civilian, noninstitutionalized population aged ≥16 years (Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The employment situation—September 2016.
Washington, DC: US Department of Labor; 2016.
 ).
¶¶¶ Antimicrobial products registered for use against H1N1 influenza and other influenza A viruses on hard surfaces ( ).
Top References Barrios LC, Koonin LM, Kohl KS, Cetron M.
Selecting nonpharmaceutical strategies to minimize influenza spread: the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic and beyond.
Public Health Rep 2012;127:565–71.
CrossRef PubMed Monto AS, Webster RG.
In: Webster RG, Monto AS, Braciale TJ, Lamb RA, eds.
Textbook of influenza.
West Sussex, UK: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd; 2013:20–33.
Shrestha SS, Swerdlow DL, Borse RH, et al.
Estimating the burden of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009–April 2010).
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S75–82.
CrossRef PubMed Jhung MA, Swerdlow D, Olsen SJ, et al.
Epidemiology of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States.
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S13–26.
CrossRef PubMed CDC.
Updated CDC estimates of 2009 H1N1 influenza cases, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States, April 2009–April 10, 2010.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
 Labrosse B, Tourdjman M, Porcher R, et al.
Detection of extensive cross-neutralization between pandemic and seasonal A/H1N1 influenza viruses using a pseudotype neutralization assay.
PLoS One 2010;5:e11036.
CrossRef PubMed Nougairède A, Ninove L, Zandotti C, et al.
Novel virus influenza A (H1N1sw) in South-Eastern France, April–August 2009.
PLoS One 2010;5:e9214.
CrossRef PubMed CDC.
Use of influenza A (H1N1) 2009 monovalent vaccine: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), 2009.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2009;58(No.
PubMed Fell DB, Sprague AE, Liu N, et al.
Better Outcomes Registry & Network (BORN) Ontario.
H1N1 influenza vaccination during pregnancy and fetal and neonatal outcomes.
Am J Public Health 2012;102:e33–40.
CrossRef PubMed Richards JL, Hansen C, Bredfeldt C, et al.
Neonatal outcomes after antenatal influenza immunization during the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic: impact on preterm birth, birth weight, and small for gestational age birth.
Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:1216–22.
CrossRef PubMed CDC.
Update: novel influenza A (H1N1) virus infection—Mexico, March–May, 2009.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:585–9.
PubMed CDC.
CDC guidance for state and local public health officials and school administrators for school (K–12) responses to influenza during the 2009–2010 school year.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
 CDC.
Swine influenza A (H1N1) infection in two children—Southern California, March–April 2009.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:400–2.
PubMed CDC.
Telebriefing on investigation of human cases of H1N1 flu.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC.
May 5, 2009.
 Kann L, Kinchen S, Modzelski B, et al.
ILI-related school dismissal monitoring system: an overview and assessment.
Disaster Med Public Health Prep 2012;6:104–12.
CrossRef PubMed Talaat M, Afifi S, Dueger E, et al.
Effects of hand hygiene campaigns on incidence of laboratory-confirmed influenza and absenteeism in schoolchildren, Cairo, Egypt.
Emerg Infect Dis 2011;17:619–25.
CrossRef PubMed Chao DL, Halloran ME, Longini IM .
School opening dates predict pandemic influenza A(H1N1) outbreaks in the United States.
J Infect Dis 2010;202:877–80.
CrossRef PubMed Copeland DL, Basurto-Davila R, Chung W, et al.
Effectiveness of a school district closure for pandemic influenza A (H1N1) on acute respiratory illnesses in the community: a natural experiment.
Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:509–16.
CrossRef PubMed Earn DJ, He D, Loeb MB, Fonseca K, Lee BE, Dushoff J.
Effects of school closure on incidence of pandemic influenza in Alberta, Canada.
Ann Intern Med 2012;156:173–81.
CrossRef PubMed Chowell G, Echevarría-Zuno S, Viboud C, et al.
Characterizing the epidemiology of the 2009 influenza A/H1N1 pandemic in Mexico.
PLoS Med 2011;8:e1000436.
CrossRef PubMed Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Guide to Community Preventive Services (The Community Guide); US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2012.
 Herrera-Valdez MA, Cruz-Aponte M, Castillo-Chavez C.
Multiple outbreaks for the same pandemic: local transportation and social distancing explain the different “waves” of A-H1N1pdm cases observed in México during 2009.
Math Biosci Eng 2011;8:21–48.
CrossRef PubMed Nasrullah M, Breiding MJ, Smith W, et al.
Response to 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 among public schools of Georgia, United States—fall 2009.
Int J Infect Dis 2012;16:e382–90.
CrossRef PubMed Kimberlin DW, Escude J, Gantner J, et al.
Targeted antiviral prophylaxis with oseltamivir in a summer camp setting.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2010;164:323–7.
CrossRef PubMed Ward KA, Armstrong P, McAnulty JM, Iwasenko JM, Dwyer DE.
Outbreaks of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 and seasonal influenza A (H3N2) on cruise ship.
Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:1731–7.
CrossRef PubMed Pebody RG, Harris R, Kafatos G, et al.
Use of antiviral drugs to reduce household transmission of pandemic (H1N1) 2009, United Kingdom.
Emerg Infect Dis 2011;17:990–9.
CrossRef PubMed Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health.
Public response to H1N1.
Boston, MA: Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health.
 CDC.
Parental attitudes and experiences during school dismissals related to 2009 influenza A (H1N1)—United States, 2009.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2010;59:1131–4.
PubMed Agolory SG, Barbot O, Averhoff F, et al.
Implementation of non-pharmaceutical interventions by New York City public schools to prevent 2009 influenza A.
PLoS One 2013;8:e50916.
CrossRef PubMed Klaiman T, Kraemer JD, Stoto MA.
Variability in school closure decisions in response to 2009 H1N1: a qualitative systems improvement analysis.
BMC Public Health 2011;11:73.
CrossRef PubMed Enanoria WT, Crawley AW, Tseng W, Furnish J, Balido J, Aragón TJ.
The epidemiology and surveillance response to pandemic influenza A (H1N1) among local health departments in the San Francisco Bay Area.
BMC Public Health 2013;13:276.
CrossRef PubMed Drago R, Miller K.
Sick at work: infected employees in the workplace during the H1N1 pandemic.
Institute for Women’s Policy Research; 2010: No.
Potter MA, Brown ST, Cooley PC, et al.
School closure as an influenza mitigation strategy: how variations in legal authority and plan criteria can alter the impact.
BMC Public Health 2012;12:977.
CrossRef PubMed Bell DM, Weisfuse IB, Hernandez-Avila M, Del Rio C, Bustamante X, Rodier G.
Pandemic influenza as 21st century urban public health crisis.
Emerg Infect Dis 2009;15:1963–9.
CrossRef PubMed SteelFisher GK.
Blendon RJ, Kang M, et al.
Adoption of preventive behaviors in response to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic: a multiethnic perspective.
Influenza Other Respir Viruses 2015;9:131–42.
Quinn SC, Parmer J, Freimuth VS, Hilyard KM, Musa D, Kim KH.
Exploring communication, trust in government, and vaccination intention later in the 2009 H1N1 pandemic: results of a national survey.
Biosecur Bioterror 2013;11:96–106.
CrossRef PubMed Peiris JSM, Yu WC, Leung CW, et al.
Re-emergence of fatal human influenza A subtype H5N1 disease.
Lancet 2004;363:617–9.
CrossRef PubMed Gift TL, Palekar RS, Sodha SV, et al.
; Pennsylvania H1N1 Working Group.
Household effects of school closure during pandemic (H1N1) 2009, Pennsylvania, USA.
Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:1315–7.
CrossRef PubMed Borse RH, Behravesh CB, Dumanovsky T, et al.
Closing schools in response to the 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 virus in New York City: economic impact on households.
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S168–72.
CrossRef PubMed Chen WC, Huang AS, Chuang JH, Chiu CC, Kuo HS.
Social and economic impact of school closure resulting from pandemic influenza A/H1N1.
J Infect 2011;62:200–3.
CrossRef PubMed Mizumoto K, Yamamoto T, Nishiura H.
Contact behaviour of children and parental employment behaviour during school closures against the pandemic influenza A (H1N1-2009) in Japan.
J Int Med Res 2013;41:716–24.
CrossRef PubMed Lau CH, Springston EE, Sohn MW, et al.
Hand hygiene instruction decreases illness-related absenteeism in elementary schools: a prospective cohort study.
BMC Pediatr 2012;12:52.
CrossRef PubMed Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan DB.
Updated preparedness and response framework for influenza pandemics.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No.
PubMed Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
CrossRef PubMed Bell D, Nicoll A, Fukuda K, et al.
World Health Organization Writing Group.
Non-pharmaceutical interventions for pandemic influenza, national and community measures.
Emerg Infect Dis 2006;12:88–94.
PubMed Morse SS, Garwin RL, Olsiewski PJ.
Public health.
Next flu pandemic: what to do until the vaccine arrives?
Science 2006;314:929.
CrossRef PubMed Hatchett RJ, Mecher CE, Lipsitch M.
Public health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2007;104:7582–7.
CrossRef PubMed Markel H, Lipman HB, Navarro JA, et al.
Nonpharmaceutical interventions implemented by US cities during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic.
JAMA 2007;298:644–54.
CrossRef PubMed Institute of Medicine (US).
Modeling community containment for pandemic influenza: a letter report.
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2006.
Wu JT, Riley S, Fraser C, Leung GM.
Reducing the impact of the next influenza pandemic using household-based public health interventions.
PLoS Med 2006;3:e361.
CrossRef PubMed Ferguson NM, Cummings DA, Fraser C, Cajka JC, Cooley PC, Burke DS.
Strategies for mitigating an influenza pandemic.
Nature 2006;442:448–52.
CrossRef PubMed Institute of Medicine (US) Forum on Microbial Threats.
The domestic and international impacts of the 2009-H1N1 influenza A pandemic.
Global challenges, global solutions: workshop summary.
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2010.
Halloran ME, Ferguson NM, Eubank S, et al.
Modeling targeted layered containment of an influenza pandemic in the United States.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2008;105:4639–44.
CrossRef PubMed Collignon PJ, Carnie JA.
Infection control and pandemic influenza.
Med J Aust 2006;185(Suppl):S54–7.
PubMed Brankston G, Gitterman L, Hirji Z, Lemieux C, Gardam M.
Transmission of influenza A in human beings.
Lancet Infect Dis 2007;7:257–65.
CrossRef PubMed Hall CB, Douglas RG .
Nosocomial influenza infection as a cause of intercurrent fevers in infants.
Pediatrics 1975;55:673–7.
PubMed Memoli MJ, Athota R, Reed S, et al.
The natural history of influenza infection in the severely immunocompromised vs nonimmunocompromised hosts.
Clin Infect Dis 2014;58:214–24.
CrossRef PubMed Levy JW, Suntarattiwong P, Simmerman JM, et al.
Increased hand washing reduces influenza virus surface contamination in Bangkok households, 2009–2010.
Influenza Other Respir Viruses 2014;8:13–6.
Bean B, Moore BM, Sterner B, Peterson LR, Gerding DN, Balfour HH .
Survival of influenza viruses on environmental surfaces.
J Infect Dis 1982;146:47–51.
CrossRef PubMed Thomas Y, Boquete-Suter P, Koch D, Pittet D, Kaiser L.
Survival of influenza virus on human fingers.
Clin Microbiol Infect 2014;20:O58–64.
CrossRef PubMed Cori A, Valleron AJ, Carrat F, Scalia Tomba G, Thomas G, Boëlle PY.
Estimating influenza latency and infectious period durations using viral excretion data.
Epidemics 2012;4:132–8.
CrossRef PubMed Molinari NA, Ortega-Sanchez IR, Messonnier ML, et al.
The annual impact of seasonal influenza in the U.S.: measuring disease burden and costs.
Vaccine 2007;25:5086–96.
CrossRef PubMed Sato M, Hosoya M, Kato K, Suzuki H.
Viral shedding in children with influenza virus infections treated with neuraminidase inhibitors.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 2005;24:931–2.
CrossRef PubMed Hall CB, Douglas RG , Geiman JM, Meagher MP.
Viral shedding patterns of children with influenza B infection.
J Infect Dis 1979;140:610–3.
CrossRef PubMed Neuzil KM, Hohlbein C, Zhu Y.
Illness among schoolchildren during influenza season: effect on school absenteeism, parental absenteeism from work, and secondary illness in families.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2002;156:986–91.
CrossRef PubMed Glezen WP, Couch RB, MacLean RA, et al.
Interpandemic influenza in the Houston area, 1974–76.
N Engl J Med 1978;298:587–92.
CrossRef PubMed Fox JP, Cooney MK, Hall CE, Foy HM.
Influenzavirus infections in Seattle families, 1975–1979.
Pattern of infection in invaded households and relation of age and prior antibody to occurrence of infection and related illness.
Am J Epidemiol 1982;116:228–42.
CrossRef PubMed Guclu H, Read J, Vukotich CJ , et al.
Social contact networks and mixing among students in K–12 schools in Pittsburgh, PA.
PLoS One 2016;11:e0151139.
CrossRef PubMed Leecaster M, Toth DJ, Pettey WB, et al.
Estimates of social contact in a middle school based on self-report and wireless sensor data.
PLoS One 2016;11:e0153690.
CrossRef PubMed Hens N, Ayele GM, Goeyvaerts N, et al.
Estimating the impact of school closure on social mixing behaviour and the transmission of close contact infections in eight European countries.
BMC Infect Dis 2009;9:187.
CrossRef PubMed Eames KT, Tilston NL, White PJ, Adams E, Edmunds WJ.
The impact of illness and the impact of school closure on social contact patterns.
Health Technol Assess 2010;14:267–312.
CrossRef PubMed Nichol KL, Lind A, Margolis KL, et al.
The effectiveness of vaccination against influenza in healthy, working adults.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:889–93.
CrossRef PubMed Monto AS, Davenport FM, Napier JA, Francis T .
Modification of an outbreak of influenza in Tecumseh, Michigan by vaccination of schoolchildren.
J Infect Dis 1970;122:16–25.
CrossRef PubMed Reichert TA, Sugaya N, Fedson DS, Glezen WP, Simonsen L, Tashiro M.
The Japanese experience with vaccinating schoolchildren against influenza.
N Engl J Med 2001;344:889–96.
CrossRef PubMed Mogabgab WJ.
Acute respiratory illnesses in university (1962–1966), military and industrial (1962–1963) populations.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1968;98:359–79.
PubMed Layde PM, Engelberg AL, Dobbs HI, et al.
Outbreak of influenza A/USSR/77 at Marquette University.
J Infect Dis 1980;142:347–52.
CrossRef PubMed Sobal J, Loveland FC.
Infectious disease in a total institution: a study of the influenza epidemic of 1978 on a college campus.
Public Health Rep 1982;97:66–72.
PubMed Pons VG, Canter J, Dolin R.
Influenza A/USSR/77 (H1N1) on a university campus.
Am J Epidemiol 1980;111:23–30.
CrossRef PubMed Nichol KL, Heilly SD, Ehlinger E.
Colds and influenza-like illnesses in university students: impact on health, academic and work performance, and health care use.
Clin Infect Dis 2005;40:1263–70.
CrossRef PubMed Nichol KL, D’Heilly S, Ehlinger E.
Burden of upper respiratory illnesses among college and university students: 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 cohorts.
Vaccine 2006;24:6724–5.
CrossRef PubMed Iuliano AD, Reed C, Guh A, et al.
Notes from the field: outbreak of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus at a large public university in Delaware, April-May 2009.
Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:1811–20.
CrossRef PubMed Wang L, Chu C, Yang G, et al.
Transmission characteristics of different students during a school outbreak of (H1N1) pdm09 influenza in China, 2009.
Sci Rep 2014;4:5982.
PubMed Glass RI, Brann EA, Slade JD, et al.
Community-wide surveillance of influenza after outbreaks due to H3N2 (A/Victoria/75 and A/Texas/77) and H1N1 (A/USSR/77) influenza viruses, Mercer County, New Jersey, 1978.
J Infect Dis 1978;138:703–6.
CrossRef PubMed Nichol KL, D’Heilly S, Ehlinger EP.
Influenza vaccination among college and university students: impact on influenzalike illness, health care use, and impaired school performance.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2008;162:1113–8.
CrossRef PubMed Wong KK, Shi J, Gao H, et al.
Why is school closed today?
Unplanned K–12 school closures in the United States, 2011–2013.
PLoS One 2014;9:e113755.
CrossRef PubMed Russell ES, Zheteyeva Y, Gao H, et al.
Reactive school closure during increased influenza-like illness (ILI) activity in Western Kentucky, 2013: a field evaluation of effect on ILI incidence and economic and social consequences for families.
Open Forum Infect Dis 2016;3:ofw113.
Davis BM, Markel H, Navarro A, Wells E, Monto AS, Aiello AE.
The effect of reactive school closure on community influenza-like illness counts in the state of Michigan during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic.
Clin Infect Dis 2015;60:e90–7.
CrossRef PubMed Gatwood J, Meltzer MI, Messonnier M, Ortega-Sanchez IR, Balkrishnan R, Prosser LA.
Seasonal influenza vaccination of healthy working-age adults: a review of economic evaluations.
Drugs 2012;72:35–48.
CrossRef PubMed Balkhy HH, Memish ZA, Bafaqeer S, Almuneef MA.
Influenza a common viral infection among Hajj pilgrims: time for routine surveillance and vaccination.
J Travel Med 2004;11:82–6.
CrossRef PubMed Abubakar I, Gautret P, Brunette GW, et al.
Global perspectives for prevention of infectious diseases associated with mass gatherings.
Lancet Infect Dis 2012;12:66–74.
CrossRef PubMed Gutiérrez I, Litzroth A, Hammadi S, et al.
Community transmission of influenza A (H1N1)v virus at a rock festival in Belgium, 2-5 July 2009.
Euro Surveill 2009;14:19294.
PubMed Rashid H, Haworth E, Shafi S, Memish ZA, Booy R.
Pandemic influenza: mass gatherings and mass infection.
Lancet Infect Dis 2008;8:526–7.
CrossRef PubMed Rainey JJ, Phelps T, Shi J.
Mass gatherings and respiratory disease outbreaks in the United States—should we be worried?
Results from a systematic literature review and analysis of the National Outbreak Reporting System.
PLoS One 2016;11:e0160378.
CrossRef PubMed Blyth CC, Foo H, van Hal SJ, et al.
World Youth Day 2008 Influenza Study Group.
Influenza outbreaks during World Youth Day 2008 mass gathering.
Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:809–15.
CrossRef PubMed Shi P, Keskinocak P, Swann JL, Lee BY.
The impact of mass gatherings and holiday traveling on the course of an influenza pandemic: a computational model.
BMC Public Health 2010;10:778.
CrossRef PubMed Benkouiten S, Charrel R, Belhouchat K, et al.
Circulation of respiratory viruses among pilgrims during the 2012 Hajj pilgrimage.
Clin Infect Dis 2013;57:992–1000.
CrossRef PubMed Memish ZA, Assiri A, Turkestani A, et al.
Mass gathering and globalization of respiratory pathogens during the 2013 Hajj.
Clin Microbiol Infect 2015;21:571.e1–8.
CrossRef PubMed Bischoff WE, Swett K, Leng I, Peters TR.
Exposure to influenza virus aerosols during routine patient care.
J Infect Dis 2013;207:1037–46.
CrossRef PubMed Weber TP, Stilianakis NI.
Inactivation of influenza A viruses in the environment and modes of transmission: a critical review.
J Infect 2008;57:361–73.
CrossRef PubMed Langmuir AD, Pizzi M, Trotter WY, Dunn FL.
Public Health Rep 1958;73:114–20.
CrossRef PubMed Lim HC, Cutter J, Lim WK, Ee A, Wong YC, Tay BK.
The influenza A (H1N1-2009) experience at the inaugural Asian Youth Games Singapore 2009: mass gathering during a developing pandemic.
Br J Sports Med 2010;44:528–32.
CrossRef PubMed Kelso JK, Milne GJ, Kelly H.
Simulation suggests that rapid activation of social distancing can arrest epidemic development due to a novel strain of influenza.
BMC Public Health 2009;9:117.
CrossRef PubMed Sadique MZ, Edmunds WJ, Smith RD, et al.
Precautionary behavior in response to perceived threat of pandemic influenza.
Emerg Infect Dis 2007;13:1307–13.
CrossRef PubMed Berkman BE.
Mitigating pandemic influenza: the ethics of implementing a school closure policy.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2008;14:372–8.
CrossRef PubMed Top FIGURE 1.
Goals of community mitigation for pandemic influenza Source: Adapted from: CDC.
Interim pre-pandemic planning guidance: community strategy for pandemic influenza mitigation in the United States—early, targeted, layered use of nonpharmaceutical interventions.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2007.

Top TABLE 1.
Nonpharmaceutical interventions for personal and community preparedness to prevent pandemic influenza NPI category* NPIs Timing Personal Personal protective measures for everyday use Voluntary home isolation of ill persons (staying home when ill) Recommended at all times Respiratory etiquette Hand hygiene Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics Voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members (staying home for up to 3 days† when a household member is ill) Reserved for pandemics Use of face masks in community settings when ill Community School closures and dismissals§ Temporary, preemptive, coordinated dismissals of child care facilities and schools for grades K–12¶ Reserved for pandemics Social distancing measures (examples) Dividing classes into smaller groups and creating opportunities for distance learning (e.g., via the internet or local television or radio stations) Reserved for pandemics Telecommuting and remote-meeting options in workplaces Mass gathering modifications, postponements, or cancellations Environmental Environmental surface cleaning measures Routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects in homes, child care facilities, schools, and workplaces Recommended at all times Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
*Personal, community, and environmental NPIs should be 1) initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics begin to grow exponentially, 2) targeted toward the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where the novel virus circulates), and 3) layered together to reduce community transmission to the greatest extent possible.
†If the incubation period for the next pandemic influenza virus is longer or shorter than 3 days, CDC will amend the recommendation.
§A school closure involves closing a school and sending all the students and staff members home.
A school dismissal could involve a school staying open for staff members while the students stay home.
¶Preemptive, coordinated dismissals might be implemented early during a pandemic to decrease the spread of influenza before many students and staff members become ill.
Selective dismissals might be implemented by schools that serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza.
Reactive dismissals might be implemented when many students and staff members are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are arriving at school ill and being sent home.
Selective and reactive dismissals do not help slow disease transmission in the community.
Top TABLE 2.
Factors to consider before implementing nonpharmaceutical interventions during an influenza pandemic Planning factors Planning goals Activities Ethical considerations Community engagement in prepandemic planning Equitable distribution of public health resources during a pandemic Promoting public input into NPI planning Ensuring that NPIs benefit all groups within a community Carefully considering and justifying any restrictions on individual freedom needed to implement NPIs (e.g., voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members) Feasibility of NPI implementation Minimal interruption of regular programs and activities Selection of NPIs that are practical to implement within each community Identifying practical obstacles to NPI implementation and considering ways to overcome them.
In many scenarios, both personal and community NPIs might be recommended.
NPI recommendations might change as new knowledge is gained.
Identifying key personnel to disseminate emergency information (e.g., alerts, warnings, and notifications) and establishing communication channels that enable members of the public to ask questions and express concerns (e.g., call centers or social media sites) Ensuring that school dismissals and other NPIs are acceptable to the community during a pandemic Coordinating with local partners to support households complying with voluntary home quarantine (e.g., providing necessary food and supplies) Identifying strategies for mitigating the secondary consequences of school dismissals and other social distancing measures (e.g., modifications or cancellations of mass gatherings) Minimizing intervention fatigue* during a pandemic Balancing public health benefits and social costs Maximization of NPI public health benefits and minimization of social and economic costs during a pandemic Estimating economic and social costs of NPIs and their secondary (unintended or unwanted) consequences Balancing those costs against public health benefits, with reference to different prepandemic planning scenarios Identifying strategies for reducing the cost of NPI implementation Monitoring and evaluation of NPIs Ongoing guidance during a pandemic on optimal NPI implementation, maintenance, and discontinuation Identifying ways to monitor and evaluate the following: Degree of transmission and severity of the evolving pandemic Type and degree of NPI implementation Level of compliance with NPI measures and the emergence of intervention fatigue Effectiveness of NPIs in mitigating pandemic impact Secondary consequences of NPIs and the effectiveness of strategies to mitigate them Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
Source: Adapted from: Barrios LC, Koonin LM, Kohl KS, Cetron M.
Selecting nonpharmaceutical strategies to minimize influenza spread: the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic and beyond.
Public Health Rep 2012;127:565–71.
*Fatigue that results from being requested, often repeatedly, to change daily behaviors for the good of the community, especially when those changes disrupt daily life (e.g., caring for children when schools are dismissed for several weeks or avoiding crowded settings) (Source: Ryan JR, ed.
Pandemic influenza: emergency planning and community preparedness.
Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 2008:158).
Top TABLE 3.
Examples of possible nonpharmaceutical intervention surveillance indicators for an influenza pandemic Key influenza indicator U.S.
data source Measure of influenza activity Indicators of spread or level of influenza activity Percentage of patient visits to health care providers for ILI in the United States Outpatient ILI Surveillance Network (ILINet), which includes approximately 2,900 enrolled outpatient health care providers in 50 states Current ILI level in relation to most recent national and region-specific baseline levels, with CDC providing baseline values for the 10 HHS surveillance regions and for the United States as a whole  ILI activity by state: percentage of outpatient visits for ILI in a state (ranges from minimal to high) Outpatient ILI Surveillance Network (ILINet) Additional: Flu Near You  Ten activity levels that compare the mean reported percent of visits due to ILI for the current week to noninfluenza weeks, specifying the number of standard deviations at or above the mean for the current week  Geographic spread of influenza in a state (ranges from none to widespread) State and Territorial Epidemiologists reports Estimated weekly levels of geographic spread (local, regional, or widespread) of influenza activity reported by state health departments  Percentage of respiratory specimens that test positive for influenza viruses in the United States Approximately 110 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services; ILI = influenza-like illness; WHO = World Health Organization.
Lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response The 2009 H1N1 pandemic demonstrated the unpredictable nature of influenza viruses and showed that prepandemic planning must be broad and flexible.
Lessons learned during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response from the United States and other affected countries follow.
H1N1 and children The epidemiology of pandemic influenza might be different from the epidemiology of seasonal influenza; therefore, different populations might be disproportionately affected.
An estimated 43–89 million people in the United States were infected with H1N1pdm09 virus during April 2009–April 2010, and approximately 12,000 people died (3).
Severe outcomes of influenza include complications that require hospitalization and can be fatal (e.g., pneumonia or bronchitis).
Severe outcomes from H1N1pdm09 virus infection were most common among children, young adults, and specific groups at high risk for complications (e.g., pregnant women) rather than in adults aged ≥65 years, the group most at risk from seasonal influenza (4–7).
Over the course of the pandemic, an estimated 86,000 children were hospitalized in the United States, which is 2–3 times the number admitted during a typical influenza season (5).
The number of deaths among children also was more than twice as high as during a regular influenza season.
On August 28, 2009, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended that children be placed higher on the priority list for receiving the monovalent H1N1 vaccine, which became available in October 2009 (8).
Children at risk for severe outcomes from the H1N1pdm09 virus (and from any influenza virus) included those with underlying health conditions such as asthma, diabetes, obesity, or heart, lung, or neurologic diseases.
Approximately 60% of hospitalized children had one or more of these conditions, compared with 80% of hospitalized adults (5).
Infants born to mothers infected with the H1N1pdm09 virus also might have been at risk, as suggested by U.S.
and Canadian studies which found that infants whose mothers received the H1N1 vaccine were less likely to be small for their gestational age or delivered preterm (9,10).
Public health tools to assess pandemic severity and guide NPI selection The 2007 Pandemic Severity Index had limited usefulness because attack rates and case-fatality ratios were difficult to measure and imprecise early in the pandemic.
The earliest available data on attack rates and case-fatality ratios suggested that the 2009 H1N1 pandemic virus was highly transmissible and caused severe outcomes.
However, the cases being reported overestimated severity because they were primarily derived from mortality data.
By May 1, 2009, which was 5 days after the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) declared a nationwide public health emergency, CDC had received reports of 141 laboratory-confirmed H1N1pdm09 cases in 19 states, with one death in Texas (
On the basis of this initial information and continued reports of cases of disease with severe outcomes in Mexico, including deaths among previously healthy young adults (11), CDC recommended that communities with laboratory-confirmed cases of H1N1pdm09 virus consider closing child care facilities and schools, depending on the extent and severity of illness (12).
CDC also recommended other NPIs described in the 2007 strategy, including voluntary home isolation for ill persons (i.e., staying home when ill) and voluntary home quarantine for exposed household members (i.e., staying home when a household member is ill).
Within 12 days of recognition of the emerging pandemic, the national influenza surveillance system generated sufficient data for a refined assessment.
From April 23, 2009, when H1N1pdm09 virus was detected in California (13), through May 5, 2009, CDC received reports of 403 confirmed cases of H1N1pdm09 virus in 38 states.
The low rates of hospitalizations and deaths, as well as reported attack rates similar to those for seasonal influenza, suggested that the majority of U.S.
cases were less severe than those reported from Mexico.
CDC issued new nonpharmaceutical intervention (NPI) guidance on May 5, 2009 (14), recommending that although ill students and teachers should stay home, schools did not need to close.
The guidance acknowledged that public health authorities in certain jurisdictions might still decide to close schools on the basis of local considerations, including public concern, school absenteeism, and staffing shortages.
During August–December 2009, communities in 46 U.S.
states implemented 812 dismissal events (i.e., a single school dismissal or dismissal of all schools in a district), affecting 1,947 schools with approximately 623,616 students and 40,521 teachers (15).
The 1,947 schools included 639 urban and 1,250 rural schools, representing 0.7% and 3.3% of all urban and rural schools, respectively, in the United States.
The recognition that the Pandemic Severity Index was of limited use during the earliest stages of an actual pandemic led to the development of a new tool for evaluating the potential effects of an emerging pandemic, the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) (supplementary Chapter 2 
NPIs and influenza transmission Well-established methods to prevent seasonal influenza transmission, such as hand hygiene promotion, also were effective in pandemic influenza settings to prevent the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus in some communities.
Hand hygiene.
A randomized trial, conducted over 12 weeks in 60 elementary schools in Cairo, Egypt, during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, demonstrated a 47% reduction in confirmed cases of influenza after twice-daily hand washing and health hygiene instruction in comparison with a control group that did not receive health hygiene instruction or have access to soap and hand-drying materials (16).
This study demonstrated the effects of hand washing on laboratory-confirmed influenza in a population of persons that typically have little or no access to soap or hand-drying materials and among whom frequent hand washing is not standard.
School closures and dismissals.
Data from the United States, Canada, and Mexico suggest that early implementation of school closures and dismissals reduced the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus.
Two waves of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic occurred in the United States, one in spring 2009 and one in fall 2009.
The majority of pandemic cases occurred during the fall wave (4), as H1N1pdm09 cases surged in many U.S.
communities about 2 weeks after schools reopened after summer break.
Opening dates for schools ranged from early August through early September (17).
A comparison of Texas school districts that closed versus those that stayed open during the pandemic found that school closure was associated with a 45%–72% reduction in acute respiratory illness in households with school-aged children (18).
Mathematical models suggested that school closures in Alberta, Canada, in May 2009 were associated with reduced transmission among school children by approximately 50%, attenuating the first wave of the 2009 H1N1 epidemic (19).
H1N1pdm09 virus transmission in the greater Mexico City, Mexico, area decreased by an estimated 29%–37% after school closures and implementation of other social distancing measures (20).
After conducting a systematic review of scientific literature published through February 2011, including initial data gathered during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, the U.S.
Community Preventive Services Task Force found insufficient evidence to determine whether the public health benefits of preemptive, coordinated school dismissals balanced their economic and social costs during a mild or moderate influenza pandemic.
However, the task force did recommend preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a severe pandemic (21).
Social distancing measures.
H1N1pdm09 virus transmission in Mexico decreased significantly after school closures and implementation of other social distancing measures (20,22).
In the United States, schools in Georgia that shortened school days had less absenteeism due to severe respiratory illness (23).
Additional assessments are needed to determine the value of combining voluntary home quarantine with antiviral chemoprophylaxis.
Although the 2007 strategy suggested that communities consider combining voluntary home quarantine with prophylactic use of antiviral medications, assuming a feasible means of distribution, HHS did not adopt antiviral chemoprophylaxis as its official policy because of concerns about insufficient supplies and drug resistance.
During the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, antiviral chemoprophylaxis of exposed persons contained the spread of the disease, along with the implementation of social distancing measures, in a few small, well-defined settings, including a summer camp (24) and a cruise ship (25).
Moreover, an observational cohort study of 259 households in the United Kingdom found that administration of antiviral medications to 285 confirmed patients and their 761 close contacts was very effective (92%) in preventing household transmission (26).
Although limited, the H1N1pdm09 experience suggests that antiviral chemoprophylaxis might be recommended in the future in some settings as an adjunct to self-quarantine, assuming that additional antiviral medications are on the market, providing more treatment choices and making the emergence of drug resistance less of a concern.
However, this recommendation would require much greater quantities of antiviral medications, even if no new products are developed, to ensure sufficient supplies.
Mobilizing the public Most members of the public complied with public health recommendations regarding hand hygiene and social distancing.
The Harvard Opinion Research Program conducted 13 polls on the response of the U.S.
public during the 2009–2010 pandemic, including the response of the general public, pregnant women, new mothers, parents, and businesses.
These randomized telephone polls found the following: A total of 59% of 1,067 Americans reported washing their hands or using hand sanitizer more frequently during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic (27).
A total of 25% avoided places where numerous people tend to gather, such as sporting events, malls, or public transportation.
Most (85%) of 514 pregnant women washed or sanitized their hands more frequently to reduce the chance of infection with H1N1pdm09 virus (27).
A total of 68% reported taking steps to avoid proximity to someone who had influenza-like symptoms, and 31% avoided mass gathering places.
Most (91%) of 526 new mothers also washed or sanitized their hands more frequently, and 81% took steps to avoid being near someone who had influenza-like symptoms.
School-related NPIs, including school closures and dismissals, were acceptable and feasible.
According to a Harvard Opinion Research Program poll of 523 parents from 39 U.S.
states whose child care center or school closed temporarily in response to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, 90% of parents agreed with the dismissal decision, and 85% believed the dismissal reduced influenza transmission (27,28).
A total of 75% of parents who responded stated that the dismissal was not a problem, and 3% stated it was a major problem.
Approximately 20% of parents reported that an adult in the household missed work because of the dismissal, and 19% had a child who missed a free or reduced-cost lunch.
Most of the 523 parents polled believed that at least one of the following factors was a major reason the institution had closed: 1) to keep children apart and reduce the chance they would infect each other (81%), 2) because the school decided cleaning the building and surfaces that children touch was important for reducing the spread of the illness (73%), and 3) because the school or child care center could not operate effectively when numerous students were absent (58%).
A study conducted through an online survey of school principals showed that implementing NPIs in public schools in New York City, New York, was feasible during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic (29).
Schools successfully implemented respiratory etiquette education, hand-hygiene measures, and environmental measures and isolated ill students.
Another online survey found that the majority of public schools in Georgia also were able to successfully implement both personal and community NPIs recommended by CDC (23).
Public health practitioners should be prepared to explain that the initial pandemic guidance might change if a pandemic is more or less severe than initially assessed.
Within 12 days of recognizing the emerging pandemic on April 23, 2009, CDC updated its initial guidance on NPIs (issued on May 1, 2009) on May 5, 2009, on the basis of more complete and robust data that suggested that the majority of U.S.
cases were less severe than those reported from Mexico.
Certain public health departments reported difficulties in communicating the updated guidance on school closures to their communities, especially communities that were planning to implement school closures or had already done so (30,31).
The H1N1pdm09 experience with school closures suggests the need to coordinate and harmonize school closure policies across jurisdictions and to proactively communicate and explain any jurisdictional differences.
Public engagement, community preparedness, and trust in government action are important for successful NPI implementation during a pandemic.
Practical obstacles to NPI implementation that required community-level solutions included 1) ill persons going to work because they lacked unpaid leave (32), 2) lack of clarity about decision-making authority to close schools for public health reasons in some jurisdictions (30,33), and 3) lack of access to clean water, soap, or hand sanitizer in some workplaces.
Although 74% of 1,057 businesses that participated in a Harvard Opinion Research Program poll on business preparedness for the H1N1pdm09 virus offered paid sick leave for at least some workers (27), fewer offered paid leave that would allow workers to take care of ill family members (35%) or to take time off to care for children if schools or child care centers closed (21%).
In large cities such as New York City, New York, rapid implementation of local-level response strategies required advanced planning and preparation, as well as high-level political leadership; collaboration between public health and emergency management agencies; coordination with businesses, nongovernmental organizations, and community- and faith-based organizations; and transparent communication with the public (34).
During future pandemics, local health policies and risk communication strategies should take into account community attitudes and acceptance of preventive behaviors related to social distancing, hand hygiene, and vaccination, which might differ across racial and economic groups (35).
According to an online survey of a nationally representative sample conducted by the University of Maryland, clear and consistent communication by public health authorities and government spokespersons, including the use of role models, was important to the public’s trust in government actions during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic (36).
Although the University of Maryland study focused on risk communications related to H1N1 vaccination, this finding also is likely to apply to public attitudes about NPI implementation.
Principles of community engagement Planning Before initiating a community engagement effort, consider the following: 1.
Be clear about the purpose or goals of the engagement effort and the relevant populations and communities.
Become knowledgeable about the community’s culture, economic conditions, social networks, political and power structures, norms and values, demographic trends, history, and experience with efforts by outside groups to engage it in various programs.
Learn about the community’s perceptions of those initiating the engagement activities.
Initiation For engagement to occur, the following steps are necessary: 3.
Go to the community, establish relationships, build trust, work with the formal and informal leaders, and seek commitment from community organizations and leaders to create processes for mobilizing the community.
Remember and accept that collective self-determination is the responsibility and right of all people in a community.
No external entity should assume the ability to bestow on a community the power to act in its own self-interest.
Implementation For engagement to succeed, consider the following: 5.
Partnering with the community is necessary to create change and improve health.
All aspects of community engagement must recognize and respect the diversity of the community.
Awareness of the various cultures of a community and other factors affecting diversity must be paramount in planning, designing, and implementing approaches to engaging a community.
Community engagement can only be sustained by identifying and mobilizing community assets and strengths and by developing the community’s capacity and resources to make decisions and take action.
Organizations that would like to involve a community and those seeking to effect change must be prepared to release control of actions or interventions to the community and be flexible enough to meet changing needs.
Community collaboration requires long-term commitment by the engaging organizations and its partners.
Source: Adapted from: Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.
Principles of community engagement.
Atlanta, GA: CDC, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.
 Top FIGURE 2.
Preparedness and response framework for novel influenza A virus pandemics, with CDC intervals and World Health Organization phases Source: Adapted from: Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan DB; Influenza Pandemic Framework Workgroup.
Updated preparedness and response framework for influenza pandemics.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No.
Top TABLE 4.
CDC novel influenza virus pandemic intervals Intervals Indicators Investigation: Investigation of novel influenza cases This interval is indicated by the identification of an animal case of influenza A subtype with potential implications for human health or identification of a human case of novel influenza A anywhere in the world.
Recognition: Recognition of potential for ongoing transmission This interval is indicated by an increasing number of cases or clusters of novel influenza A in humans and by virus characteristics indicating potential for ongoing human-to-human transmission anywhere in the world.
Initiation: Initiation of the pandemic wave This interval is indicated by confirmation of cases of novel influenza A in humans and demonstration of efficient and sustained human-to-human transmission anywhere in the world.
Acceleration: Acceleration of the pandemic wave This interval is indicated by an increasing rate of novel influenza A cases identified nationally, indicating establishment in the country.
Deceleration: Deceleration of the pandemic wave This interval is indicated by decreasing rates of novel influenza A infection.
Preparation: Preparation for a future pandemic wave This interval is indicated by sporadic cases of novel influenza A infection and surveillance rates returning to baseline.
Source: Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan DB; Influenza Pandemic Framework Workgroup.
Updated preparedness and response framework for influenza pandemics.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No.
Top TABLE 5.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
Top FIGURE 3.
Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework for the initial assessment of the potential impact of an influenza pandemic Source: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
Top FIGURE 4.
Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework using surveillance indicators for the refined assessment* of an influenza pandemic on the basis of past pandemics and influenza seasons Source: Adapted from: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
* Colors transition from light to dark as the estimated number of deaths increases.
Transmissibility: measured on a scale of 1–5 and includes school, workplace, and community attack rates, secondary household attack rates, school and/or workplace absenteeism rates, and rates of emergency department and outpatient visits for influenza-like illness.
Clinical severity: measured on a scale of 1–7 and includes case-fatality ratios, case-hospitalization ratios, and deaths-hospitalizations ratios.
Top TABLE 6.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
Top TABLE 7.
Process for developing the community mitigation guidelines for pandemic influenza, October 2011–October 2016 Topic Comment Goal of the guidelines The goal of the 2017 guidelines is to update the 2007 guidance and provide updated recommendations on the use of NPIs during an influenza pandemic in the United States, based on lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic and on an expanded evidence base for NPIs that includes studies conducted since 2007.
Users of the guidelines State, tribal, local, and territorial public health authorities Population and settings The updated 2017 planning guidelines apply but are not limited to activities conducted by public health authorities who are responsible for facilitating and implementing emergency preparedness, planning, and response efforts in community settings (e.g., schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings).
Developer of the guidelines The CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Work Group convened in October 2012.
The group is composed of staff from CDC’s Office of Infectious Diseases, Influenza Coordination Unit, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, and National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
The work group members are subject-matter experts in seasonal and pandemic influenza, community mitigation measures, NPIs, epidemiology, health policy, and technical guidelines development.
The work group provided technical oversight, coordinated the guidelines development process, and contributed to the writing of the updated guidelines.
Development of the guidelines The updated planning guidelines are based on a NPI report developed beginning in October 2011 and finalized in August 2013.
The NPI report was developed for internal CDC discussions and served as the foundation for updating the NPI recommendations from the 2007 guidance.
Evidence collection The NPI recommendations in the 2017 guidelines are based on studies published in English-language, peer-reviewed journals through September 2016.
The evidence base for NPIs includes systematic literature reviews, metaanalyses, and evidence from epidemiologic studies, laboratory experiments, and modeling simulations.
Method for data synthesis Staff members from CDC’s Community Interventions for Infection Control Unit worked in pairs to ensure quality control.
They reviewed, abstracted, synthesized, and entered approximately 191 articles into spreadsheets to help establish the overall NPI body of literature, including the evidence base for NPIs.
Development of the recommendations The approach used by the Guide to Community Preventive Services (The Community Guide) was adapted and applied to develop the NPI recommendations in the updated planning guidelines.
Planning guides To help operationalize the updated guidelines, six community mitigation prepandemic planning guides have been developed for key populations and decision-makers in community settings.
During September–October 2015, before submission for CDC clearance, the National Public Health Information Coalition facilitated discussion of the planning guides by representatives of the public health, education, and business communities.
The guides are part of a set of practical, user-friendly, and plain-language companion implementation materials.
Updating the guidelines The 2017 guidelines will be updated when new information warrants their modification.
Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
Top TABLE 8.
Number of selected peer-reviewed articles on nonpharmaceutical interventions used to develop community mitigation guidelines for pandemic influenza, by NPI type and measure and by article topic NPI type and measure Number and type of articles reviewed* Background Evidence based† Implementation issues Personal NPIs Personal protective measures for everyday use Voluntary home isolation§ 2 7 1 Respiratory etiquette 2 0 3 Hand hygiene 3 15 11 Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics Voluntary home quarantine§ 1 0 3 Use of face masks in community settings 0 18 4 Community NPIs School closures and dismissals 24 25 26 Social distancing measures for schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings 10 12 11 Environmental NPIs Environmental surface cleaning measures 1 12 0 Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
*Articles that are cited in more than one section in the supplementary document (supplementary Chapter 3  are not counted twice in this table.
†Of the 89 evidence-based articles, 27 articles assessed the effectiveness of NPIs when used in combination with one another.
The evidence-based articles include 14 systematic literature reviews and metaanalyses composed of approximately 475 individual studies that were reviewed and analyzed by their respective authors.
These studies contribute to the overall body of literature on NPIs and help support the evidence base on the effectiveness of NPIs.
They are provided (supplementary Appendix 6  but are not accounted for in this table because CDC staff members did not re-review them.
§Voluntary home isolation and voluntary home quarantine share the same set of evidence-based articles.
Top FIGURE 5.
Phased addition of nonpharmaceutical interventions to prevent the spread of pandemic influenza in communities Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
Top TABLE 9.
Prepandemic influenza planning scenarios to guide implementation of nonpharmaceutical interventions, by severity of pandemic and the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework quadrant Severity of pandemic and PSAF quadrant Implications of clinical severity and transmissibility in this scenario* Possible no.
of hospitalizations and deaths if unmitigated,† by age group Historical experience Age groups (yrs) No.
of hospitalizations No.
of deaths Low to moderate severity (mild to moderate pandemic) Clinical severity and transmissibility similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons.
Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 18% and 0.03%, respectively.
Rates of severe outcomes are greater among younger persons than during influenza seasons.
All ages 340,000 17,000 2009 pandemic First detected in North America, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic quickly spread to all continents.
In the United States, persons at high risk for severe complications included pregnant women and those with neuromuscular disease, lung disease, morbid obesity, and other chronic conditions.
An estimated 43–89 million people in the United States became ill with H1N1 from April 2009 through April 2010, and approximately 12,000 people died.§ A total of 87% of deaths were among persons aged ≤65 yrs, with a mean age of 43 yrs.¶ During typical influenza seasons, 80%–90% of deaths are among persons aged ≥65 yrs, and the mean age of influenza-related deaths is approximately 76 yrs.** 0–18 50,000 1,000 PSAF quadrant: A 18–64 135,000 6,000 ≥65 155,000 10,000 Moderate to high severity (moderate to severe pandemic) Clinical severity similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons.
Transmissibility greater than during influenza seasons.
Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 22% and 0.05%, respectively.
Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons, especially among younger persons.
All ages 550,000 35,000 1968 pandemic First detected in Hong Kong in July 1968, a new influenza virus (H3N2) spread worldwide.
The first cases in the United States were detected in September 1968.
The 1968 influenza pandemic resulted in approximately 30,000 deaths in the United States, with approximately half among those aged ≥65 yrs.††,§§ 0–18 80,000 2,500 PSAF quadrant: B 18–64 220,000 12,000 ≥65 250,000 20,000 High severity (severe pandemic) Clinical severity similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons.
Transmissibility greater than during influenza seasons.
Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 28% and 0.1%, respectively.
Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons.
All ages 1,100,000 86,000 1957 pandemic A new influenza virus, H2N2 (the Asian strain), emerged in China in February 1957 and spread to approximately 20 countries, including the United States, by June 1957.
An estimated 25% of the U.S.
population became ill with the new pandemic virus strain.
infection rates were highest among school-aged children and adults aged ≤40 yrs, with most (64%) of the approximately 70,000 deaths occurring among older adults.††,§§,¶¶ 0–18 150,000 6,000 PSAF quadrant: B 18–64 450,000 30,000 ≥65 500,000 50,000 Very high severity (very severe to extreme pandemic) Both clinical severity and transmissibility are greater than during annual influenza seasons.
Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 30% and 1.5%, respectively.
Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons, especially among young adults.
All ages 7,500,000 1,400,000 1918 pandemic The 1918 pandemic resulted in death for 2%–3% of those infected, a case-fatality rate that was much greater than the rate during an average influenza season.
The pandemic virus was easily transmitted.
Approximately one fourth of the U.S.
population became ill, and approximately 500,000 died; 99% of deaths occurred in persons aged ≤65 yrs.††,*** 0–18 1,000,000 100,000 PSAF quadrant: D 18–64 3,000,000 500,000 ≥65 3,400,000 800,000 Abbreviation: PSAF = Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework.
*Based on PSAF (Source: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91).
Age-specific point estimates of hospitalizations and deaths are based on U.S.
Census 2010 population data.
†Point estimates for hospitalizations and deaths, by age group, are based on the estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates provided in the second column (clinical severity and transmissibility).
Age-specific point estimates of hospitalizations and deaths are based on U.S.
Census 2010 population data.
§Source: Shrestha SS, Swerdlow DL, Borse RH, et al.
Estimating the burden of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009–April 2010).
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S75–S82.
¶Source: Fowlkes AL, Arguin P, Biggerstaff MS, et al.
Epidemiology of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) deaths in the United States, April–July 2009.
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S60–S68.
**Source: Viboud C, Miller M, Olson DR, Osterholm M, Simonsen L.
Preliminary estimates of mortality and years of life lost associated with the 2009 A/H1N1 pandemic in the U.S.
and comparison with past influenza seasons.
PLoS Currents 2010;2:RRN1153.
††Source: Simonsen L, Clarke MJ, Schonberger LB, Arden NH, Cox NJ, Fukuda K.
Pandemic versus epidemic influenza mortality: a pattern of changing age distribution.
J Infect Dis 1998;178:53–60.
§§Source: Cox NJ, Subbarao K.
Global epidemiology of influenza: past and present.
Annu Rev Med 2000;51:407–21.
¶¶Source: Henderson DA, Courtney B, Inglesby TV, Toner E, Nuzzo JB.
Public health and medical responses to the 1957–58 influenza pandemic.
Biosecur Bioterror 2009;7:265–73.
***Source: Collins SD.
Age and sex incidence of influenza and pneumonia morbidity and mortality in the epidemic of 1928–29 with comparative data for the epidemic of 1918–19.
Public Health Rep 1931;46:1909–37.
Top TABLE 10.
Recommended nonpharmaceutical interventions for influenza pandemics, by setting and pandemic severity* Setting Pandemic severity Low to moderate severity (mild to moderate pandemic) High severity (severe pandemic) Very high severity (very severe to extreme pandemic†) All CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects.§ CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects.
CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects.
Residences CDC generally does not recommend voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members.
CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members in areas where novel influenza virus circulates.
CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members in areas where novel influenza virus circulates.
CDC generally does not recommend use of face masks by ill persons.
CDC might recommend use of face masks by ill persons when crowded community settings cannot be avoided.
CDC might recommend use of face masks by ill persons when crowded community settings cannot be avoided.
Child care facilities, schools for grades K–12, and colleges and universities CDC might recommend selective school dismissals in facilities serving children at high risk for severe influenza complications.
CDC might recommend temporary preemptive, coordinated dismissals of child care facilities and schools.¶ CDC might recommend temporary preemptive, coordinated dismissals of child care facilities and schools.
If schools remain open, CDC might recommend social distancing measures.** If schools remain open, CDC might recommend social distancing measures.
Workplaces CDC generally does not recommend social distancing measures.
CDC might recommend social distancing measures.†† CDC might recommend social distancing measures.
Mass gatherings§§ CDC generally does not recommend modifications, postponements, or cancellations.
CDC might recommend modifications, postponements, or cancellations.
CDC might recommend modifications, postponements, or cancellations.
Abbreviation: NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.
*Personal, community, and environmental NPIs should be 1) initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics begin to grow exponentially, 2) targeted toward the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where the novel virus circulates), and 3) layered together to reduce community transmission to the greatest extent possible.
†During a very severe or extreme pandemic (similar to the 1918 pandemic), CDC is likely to take an aggressive stance and recommend certain additional NPIs.
§Recommended NPIs are the same for seasonal influenza.
¶Preemptive, coordinated dismissals might be implemented early during a pandemic to decrease the spread of influenza before many students and staff members become ill.
Selective dismissals might be implemented by schools that serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza.
Reactive dismissals might be implemented when many students and staff members are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are arriving at school ill and being sent home.
Selective and reactive dismissals do not help slow disease transmission in the community.
**Social distancing measures that reduce face-to-face contact in schools might include dividing classes into smaller groups of students who are spaced further apart from each other within the classroom.
††Social distancing measures that reduce face-to-face contact in workplaces might include offering telework and remote meeting options.
Flexible sick leave policies should be implemented to encourage workers to stay home if needed.
§§In all scenarios, mass gathering attendance during local outbreaks should be discouraged for persons at high risk for severe influenza-related complications.
Top FIGURE 6.
Department of Health and Human Services pandemic planning scenarios based on the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework Source: Adapted from: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al.
Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85–91.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Qualls N, Levitt A, Kanade N, et al.
Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic Influenza — United States, 2017.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2017;66(No.
RR-1):1–34.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Weekly Print Instructions for Authors (Updated January 8, 2025) Contents 1.0 Criteria for Publication 2.0 Types of Reports 2.1 Full Reports 2.2 Outbreak Reports 2.3 Policy Notes 2.4 Notes from the Field 2.5 Vital Signs 3.0 Authorship and Acknowledgment 3.1 Authors 3.2 Acknowledgments 4.0 Specific Guidance on Formatting Submissions 4.1 Report Text 4.2 Report Title 4.3 Authors, Affiliations, and Corresponding Author 4.4 Acknowledgments 4.5 References 4.6 Footnotes 4.7 Summary Box 4.8 Tables, Figures, and Boxes 4.8.1 Tables 4.8.2 Figures 4.8.3 Boxes 5.0 Clearance, Submission, and Acceptance 5.1 Clearance 5.2 Submission 5.3 Acceptance 6.0 Scheduling and Editing 6.1 Scheduling 6.2 Editing 7.0 Submitting Supplementary Tables and Figures 8.0 Prepublication Sharing of MMWR Reports 8.1 Authors 8.2 Media 8.3 Partner Organizations 9.0 Guidance for Correcting Errors Post-Publication 9.1 Errors Related to Small Portions of Text, Figures, or Tables 9.2 Pervasive Errors Throughout the Text, Figures, or Tables 10.0 Contact Information 1.0 Criteria for Publication Appropriateness: MMWR Weekly publishes information useful to readers in the public health community, clinicians, researchers, teachers and students, and the news media.
Reports are based on science (especially epidemiology) or on public health policy or practice.
Recommendations contained within reports must be consistent with CDC policy.
Originality: Reports should not have been previously posted on preprint servers, published elsewhere, or contain primary results that have previously been released with the exception of presentation at scientific meetings.
Quality: Reports should be based on analyses using accepted scientific methods and should include sufficient data to adequately address the public health topic.
Timeliness: Reports should contain the most current data from surveys, surveillance systems, or studies, and the most recent data should not be older than 2 years at the time of submission.
Data from outbreaks and other public health investigations should not be older than 10 months at time of submission.
Clarity: Reports should be succinct and organized logically with the reader in mind, with minimal use of acronyms and initialisms.
2.0 Types of Reports Five types of reports are published in MMWR Weekly: 1) Full Reports, 2) Outbreak Reports, 3) Policy Notes, 4) Notes from the Field, and 5) Vital Signs.
 Report Types Report Elements Full Reports describe a completed investigation or study that answers a question of public health importance.
Ideally, the answer should be one that can guide future public health practice.
As much as possible, an Outbreak Report should tell the story and read like a chronologic narrative.
These reports can be thought of as briefer, more immediate versions of the MMWR Recommendations and Reports.
These reports may contain early unconfirmed information, preliminary results, hypotheses regarding risk factors and exposures, and other similarly incomplete information.
No definitive conclusions need be presented.
The topics of MMWR Vital Signs reports align with CDC or ATSDR priorities and are invited by agency senior leadership.
Vital Signs are released with a comprehensive health communications campaign.
Ideally, the answer should be one that can guide future public health practice.
A hallmark of MMWR Full Reports is simplicity.
Each Full Report should be understandable by an informed medical or public health professional without special knowledge of the subject.
These reports are intended to summarize the analysis and recommendations, not to provide every detail.
A strict 10-reference rule is intended to limit the scope of the report.
A good test for simplicity is whether, in a sentence or two, you can easily describe to another person what the report is about and what should be done.
Full Reports are ≤1,400 words total, not including the abstract.
Full Reports typically have a labeled Abstract and labeled Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion sections.
2.1.1 Abstract (150–200 words, no references or footnotes) The Abstract is similar to both a newspaper lead paragraph (i.e., who, what, when, where, why, and how?) and the abstract of a report in a typical medical journal.
It will be deposited as an abstract into online databases (e.g., PubMed, PubMed Central, and Web of Science).
why is this worth writing about?) Methods (brief summary of study design, data source, and statistical analysis) Key findings (present one or two main results that support the public health message) Public health message (state the implications of the findings for public health practice and any call to action or recommendations for prevention and control; for some reports, authors may choose to reference existing consensus recommendations) All information in the Abstract should be included in the corresponding section of the body of the report.
2.1.2 Introduction Provide background information on the problem, its public health importance, and the rationale for the work described in the report.
2.1.3 Methods Provide a concise summary of the methods used to conduct the study and analyze the data.
The components of this section will vary depending on the study.
Components should be identified with subheadings and might include sections, such as Study Design, Study Period, Study Population, Population Characteristics, Data Sources, Case Definitions, Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria, Data Collection, Specimen Collection, Laboratory Testing, and Statistical Methods (including modeling techniques, control variables, and α levels for significance tests).
Specify response rate where relevant (e.g., for survey data).
Because methods involved in data collection for ongoing surveillance systems and some other databases might have been previously published, limited text should be devoted to information available elsewhere, with reference to the previous publication.
List the statistical software used for analysis, with the version and manufacturer in parentheses after the software name, as shown in the following examples: “SAS software (version 9.4; SAS Institute) was used to conduct all analyses.” “The best-fitting model was identified using sequential permutation tests in JoinPoint (version 4.7.0.0; National Cancer Institute).” Specific procedures used for complex modeling (e.g., SAS PROC GENMOD) may be named but are not required.
Do not name software used for data management.
Include human subjects determination and consent statement as appropriate.
CDC authors should follow the phrasing guidance at Standard Language for Human Subject Determination and Consent (cdc.gov).
2.1.4 Results Include new findings made evident by original analyses conducted by the authors.
Concisely highlight the major results of the analysis.
Content should be organized using appropriate subheadings.
Epidemiologic studies might describe elements of the descriptive (i.e., time, place, and person) and analytic results, disease trends, exposures, treatments, and outcomes.
Appropriate subheadings might include Population Characteristics, Case Characteristics, Laboratory Results, Genetic Testing Results, Univariate Analysis, and Multivariable Analysis.
Case reports and series should include details on exposure, signs and symptoms, initial diagnosis, laboratory and radiologic findings, treatment, clinical course, and outcome.
In reports in which more than one case is described, individual cases should be identified with subheadings (e.g., Case 1, Case 2, and others as appropriate).
Data highlighted in the text are also generally presented in a table or figure.
Data referenced in the Discussion section must be included in the Results section.
2.1.5 Discussion Begin by stating the conclusions of the report, interpreting the results, conveying their public health meaning, and placing the results into context by citing comparative or corroborative studies.
2.1.5.1 Limitations Include a labeled Limitations paragraph as the next to last paragraph.
Limitations are aspects of the data or analysis that might affect the accuracy or validity of results.
Begin with “The findings in this report are subject to at least X limitations,” with “X” representing the number of limitations in the paragraph.
List limitations in paragraph format as “First,” “Second,” “Third,” etc., ending with “Finally” for the last limitation.
Indicate how each limitation might have affected the results.
2.1.5.2 Implications for Public Health Practice Conclude with labeled Implications for Public Health Practice and any recommendations for prevention and control, including a specific call to action when possible.
Primary recommendations should be based on the analysis presented in the report.
If analyses suggest the possible benefit of public health actions that are not reflected in existing CDC guidance, language that is not policy directive should be used (e.g., “These analyses suggest that doing “X” might help prevent “Y”.).
Broader public health guidance that is current and related to the report topic (including existing CDC guidance and other consensus recommendations) may also be cited in this section.
The source of the guidance should be described in the report and a reference to the published guidance should be included.
When appropriate, specific examples of successful public health interventions should be included.
A statement that more research is needed is not an implication for public health practice.
If the report points to specific knowledge gaps that should be addressed to better inform public health practice, these gaps should be described earlier in the Discussion section.
Additional CDC clearance: If the report contains scientific findings or conclusions that directly contradict previous CDC or CDC partners’ science that served as the basis for public health policy or recommendations, Office of Science Quality review should be requested as part of CDC Clearance, prior to submission to MMWR.
2.1.6 Other Full Report Components Other Full Report components that are not included in the word count are listed below with links to formatting guidance.
Outbreak Reports should generally follow the format of Full Reports, with some elements specific to outbreak reporting which are described below.
Outbreak Reports generally include labeled Abstract, Investigation and Results, Public Health Response, and Discussion sections.
Different formats and section headings can be used depending on the scope of the outbreak, its investigation, and the public health response.
For example, separate sections for Epidemiologic Investigation, Environmental Health Investigation, and Laboratory Investigation, might be used to describe different components of the investigation.
As much as possible, an Outbreak Report should read like a chronologic narrative and tell the story.
2.2.1 Abstract (150–200 words, no references or footnotes) The Abstract will be deposited as an abstract into online databases (e.g., PubMed, PubMed Central, and Web of Science).
For some reports, authors may choose to reference existing consensus recommendations.
2.2.2 Investigation and Results Present the initial investigation and its findings.
This might include the following: A description of the setting and a statement of how the outbreak came to the attention of health authorities A clinical description of the index case or initial cases Initial key test results Hypothesis generation activities and results Summarize the full investigation, including the case definition, case-finding activities, method of investigation, and results.
Cases should be counted and described by clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcome, as well as by time, place, and person, if applicable.
Present the methods and results of any analytic studies (e.g., cohort or case-control studies).
Provide the results of any relevant microbiologic, genetic, or toxicologic results, and results of any testing of environmental samples.
2.2.3 Public Health Response When appropriate, include a labeled Public Health Response section that provides a brief description summarizing any public health interventions taken and the results of the interventions.
2.2.4 Discussion Format is the same as for a Full Report, except that a Limitations paragraph might not be necessary for an Outbreak Report.
2.2.5 Other Outbreak Report Components Other Outbreak Report components that are not included in the word count are listed below with links to formatting guidance.
These reports can be thought of as briefer (≤1,400 words total, not including Abstract), more immediate versions of the MMWR series Recommendations and Reports.
Public health guidelines and guidance included in an MMWR Policy Note should be developed in accordance with CDC’s Public Health Guidance Development Framework.
Prior to developing a report, programs must submit a brief (~300 word) proposal outlining the purpose of the report, methods, findings, and conclusions.
Proposals should be submitted to mmwrq@cdc.gov, copying Jacqueline Gindler (jsg5@cdc.gov), Editor, MMWR Weekly, and Terisa Rutledge (txr7@cdc.gov), Managing Editor, MMWR.
MMWR will arrange an author consultation to advise next steps (e.g., discuss whether the proposed content is best suited as anMMWR Policy Note or an MMWR Recommendation and Report.
The format of Policy Notes can vary considerably, so authors should check published MMWR reports similar to their submission to help determine the optimal format and structure for their report by searching for relevant title words such as “treatment considerations,” “guidance,” or “recommendation.” Headings are used for the Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Rationale and Evidence, Recommendation (or Interim Guidance or other appropriate heading), and Discussion sections.
Content within the sections should be organized using appropriate subheadings.
Reports should be cleared by CDC’s Office of Scientific Evidence and Recommendations (OSER) and Office of Science Quality and Library Services (OSQLS) as part of CDC clearance.
If the report is determined to provide guidance rather than guidelines, it also must be cleared by the Office of Policy, Performance and Evaluation (OPPE).
All CDC clearance should occur before the final cleared report is submitted through MMWR ScholarOne Manuscripts.
The following is a general guide for formatting: 2.3.1 Abstract (150–200 words, no references or footnotes) The Abstract will be deposited as an abstract into online databases (e.g., PubMed, PubMed Central, and Web of Science).
Include the following components (unstructured): Background (what is the problem?
why is this worth writing about?) Methods (brief summary of methods used to establish policy or recommendation) Rationale and Evidence (present one or two main points that support the recommendation) Recommendation (brief summary of policy or recommendation) Public health message (state the implications of the recommendation for public health practice and any call to action for implementation) 2.3.2 Introduction Include a paragraph that summarizes background information relevant to the policy or recommendation that can help the reader understand the context and need for the policy or recommendation.
2.3.3 Methods Include a summary of the methods used to establish the policy or recommendation, including answers to some or all of the following questions: Who was involved in the production of the guidelines or recommendations, and how?
What evidence base was considered?
What was the rationale for considering this evidence base?
Was other evidence excluded from consideration and, if so, why?
2.3.4 Rationale and Evidence Provide a concise review of the rationale for the policy or recommendation and a descriptive review of the scientific evidence used to establish it.
It should include an explanation of how the policy or recommendation adds to, or differs from, relevant policies or recommendations established previously.
2.3.5 Presentation of the policy or Recommendation State clearly when the policy or recommendation takes effect and to whom and under what circumstances it applies.
2.3.6 Discussion Comment on the likely impact of the new policy or recommendation, any call to action for implementation, and plans for assessment of the policy or recommendation.
Policy Notes do not contain a limitations paragraph.
2.3.7 Other Policy Notes Components Other Policy Notes components that are not included in the word count are listed below with links to formatting guidance.
MMWR Notes from the Field are abbreviated reports describing ongoing or recent events of concern to the public health community.
Events of concern include epidemics, outbreaks, unusual disease clusters, poisonings, exposures to disease or disease agents (including environmental and toxic), and notable public health–related case reports.
Notes from the Field should include a brief unlabeled introduction, followed by two general headings: Investigation and Outcomes, and Preliminary Conclusions and Actions.
Different headings can be used depending on the scope and format of the report.
The following is a general guide for formatting.
2.4.1 Brief Introduction The brief, unlabeled introduction should describe the onset of the event and when and how it came to light.
2.4.2 Investigation and Outcomes Description of the investigation, magnitude, and extent of the event (e.g., number of known cases or geographical occurrence), and outcomes (e.g., hospitalizations or deaths).
One table, figure, or box will be considered, especially if its inclusion shortens the text.
Include a concise summary of the methods used to conduct the investigation and analyze the data.
Include human subjects determination and consent statement as appropriate.
CDC authors should follow the phrasing guidance at Standard Language for Human Subject Determination and Consent (cdc.gov).
2.4.3 Preliminary Conclusions and Actions Preliminary conclusions and actions that were, are being, or should be taken based on the findings in the report.
No definitive conclusions need be presented.
A limitations paragraph might not be needed.
If analyses suggest the possible benefit of public health actions that are not reflected in existing CDC guidance, language that is not policy directive should be used (e.g., “These analyses suggest that doing “X” might help prevent “Y”.).
Broader public health guidance that is current and related to the report topic (including existing CDC guidance and other consensus recommendations) may also be cited in this section.
The source of the guidance should be described in the report and a reference to the published guidance should be included.
2.4.4 Other Notes from the Field Components Other Notes from the Field components that are not included in the word count are listed below with links to formatting guidance.
Summary box (use a heading for this section; ≤100 words including question headings) Acknowledgments (optional; use a heading for this section) Corresponding author Author affiliations References (≤5; use a heading for this section) Footnotes (≤5; ≤80 words each) Table, Figure, or Box (≤1 total) 2.5 Vital Signs MMWR Vital Signs reports are a special feature of MMWR that cover an important health threat and the actions that can be taken to reduce or eliminate the health threat.
The topics of MMWR Vital Signs reports align with CDC or ATSDR priorities and are invited by agency senior leadership.
Vital Signs reports are released with a comprehensive health communications campaign.
Vital Signs reports have an established format, schedule of topics, and dates of publication.
The format of Vital Signs includes a structured, labeled abstract (≤250 words) which will be deposited into online databases (e.g., PubMed, PubMed Central, and Web of Science) and main text (≤1800 words, not including the abstract) that contains headings for the Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion sections.
Authors should check the most recently published Vital Signs and adhere to the format of those reports while also adhering to the general principles of Full Reports.
For examples, see 
2.5.1 Structured abstract with four subheadings below (≤250 words, no references or footnotes) Introduction: background and purpose Methods: database, years, respondents, weighting Results: only new findings Conclusions and Implications for Public Health Practice: include a call to action describing what can be done to address the problem 2.5.2 Main text (≤1,800 words) Introduction: provide background information on the problem, its public health importance, and the rationale for the work described in the report.
Methods (content is the same as for a Full Report) Results (content is the same as for a Full Report) Discussion (content is the same as for a Full Report) The Discussion contains conclusions followed by labeled Limitations and Public Health Implications subsections.
A Vital Signs discussion conclusion must include a call to action describing what can be done by various audiences to address the problem described in the report.
2.5.3 Other Vital Signs Components Other components that are not included in the word count are listed below with links to formatting guidance.
MMWR attribution policy follows guidance from the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE).
Persons listed as authors must meet all four of the following conditions: Substantial contributions to the conception and design of the work; or the acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data for the work Drafting the work or revising it critically for important intellectual content Final approval of the version to be published Agreement to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.
ICMJE recommends that all persons who meet the first criterion should have the opportunity to participate in the review, drafting, and final approval of the manuscript.
Persons should not be listed as authors solely by virtue of their position in an organization or by attendance at a meeting.
Similarly, participation only in the acquisition of funding, fieldwork, or general supervision of one or more of the authors is not sufficient for authorship.
Persons or groups who reviewed a manuscript for a clearance process or who suggested revisions or limited changes to a manuscript should not be listed as authors.
In accordance with ICMJE recommendations , chatbots (e.g., ChatGPT) should not be listed as authors because they cannot be responsible for the accuracy, integrity, and originality, which are requirements for authorship.
Therefore, humans are responsible for any submitted material that includes the use of AI-assisted technologies.
Authors should not list AI and AI-assisted technologies as an author or co-author, nor cite AI as an author.
The order of authors should be a joint decision of the coauthors.
MMWR recognizes that scientific work is a collaboration and collaborators have a responsibility to define, accept, and fulfill their roles.
MMWR recommends that author order be discussed early and revised as needed as the work progresses.
Author order, including choice of first author, should be based on the level of contribution to the report and the work underlying it.
At times, two authors contribute equally to a report in a major role.
Authors can indicate dual first or senior authorship.
These authors’ names should be footnoted in the author list, and the footnotes describing equal contribution should be the first (and if also dual senior authors, second) footnotes in the report (i.e., included with all the other footnotes).
If authors request removal or addition of an author after manuscript submission or publication, they should provide MMWR with an explanation and signed statement of agreement for the requested change from all listed authors and from the author to be removed or added.
At times, a group will meet CDC’s criteria for authorship.
If there is a group author on the byline, the group title and list of individual members may be included following the text of the report and any general acknowledgements; persons listed in the group will be indexed in PubMed as collaborators.
MMWR follows U.S.
National Library of Medicine guidance for designating authors and other contributors in MEDLINE .
All authors who are listed on the byline are responsible for disclosing all relationships and activities that might bias or be seen to bias their work as potential conflicts of interest, such as financial relationships, personal relationships, competition or rivalries, and intellectual beliefs upon article submission.
If the submission is accepted for publication, the MMWR editor will draft a conflict of interest statement for the article based on the forms submitted by the authors.
In general, MMWR follows guidance from the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE), Guidelines on Good Publication Practice , and ICMJE’s Recommendations for the Conduct, Reporting, Editing, and Publication of Scholarly work in Medical Journals .
Any individual author can be designated as the corresponding author.
In accordance with ICMJE recommendations , the corresponding author has primary responsibility for communicating with MMWR staff and will Ensure that all administrative requirements are met, including Obtaining and archiving written permission from all persons listed as authors and all persons listed in the Acknowledgments Ensuring that all ethical considerations (e.g., institutional review board review or disclosure of conflicts of interest) have been addressed Be available throughout the submission, review, and publication processes to respond to editorial queries in a timely way Be available after publication to respond should postpublication questions about the paper arise 3.2 Acknowledgments An Acknowledgments section can be used to recognize the work of persons or groups who made substantial contributions to the project but who do not meet authorship criteria.
MMWR style is to list persons or groups and their affiliation only.
MMWR does not describe specific contributions such as “for preparing the figures” or “for editorial/statistical review,” etc.
4.0 Specific Guidance on Formatting Submissions 4.1 Report Text Open a new Microsoft (MS) Word document to create your report.
Do not use a previous journal-formatted proof as a template for your report; formatted proofs contain underlying (often unremovable) coding that interferes with MMWR processing.
Typing or copying/pasting all or portions of your report into a previous proof will make your report unusable.
Text should be double-spaced and left justified (ragged right margin), and pages should be numbered.
Report components in the primary MS Word file should be in this order (not all components are required for every report): Report title List of authors Report text Acknowledgments Corresponding author Author affiliations References Footnotes Summary box Maximum length of reports varies by report type; refer to the appropriate section of the instructions.
Word count does not include title, author information, footnotes, references, acknowledgments, or summary box.
Because MMWR represents the voice of CDC, use of first person (e.g., I, we, our) is not permitted in MMWR publications.
4.2 Report Title Title includes topic followed by em dash (—) offset by spaces, data source (if used), location, and timeframe (date range should include an en dash (–) between beginning and ending dates with no space preceding or following the en dash.
For example: “Evaluation of the Cherokee Nation Hepatitis C Virus Elimination Program — Cherokee Nation, Oklahoma, 2015–2020.” Do not refer to direction or comparison (e.g., “Trends in …” or “Larger…”).
4.3 Authors, Affiliations, and Corresponding Author List of authors follows the title.
Use first and last names and middle initials (optional), followed by the author’s degree or degrees (at authors’ discretion, degrees can be omitted).
Only report degrees equivalent to master’s and above (i.e., do not include bachelor’s level or below or professional certifications), and only the highest-level degrees should be used (e.g., if author has both a master’s and a PhD, report only the latter).
Multiple degrees of equal rank can be listed (e.g., MD, PhD, and DVM; MS and MPH, etc.).
At authors’ discretion, degrees can be omitted.
Use a superscripted numeral after each author’s degree or degrees for author affiliations provided at the end of the report.
Do not combine multiple affiliations for an author under one number; each affiliation should be reported separately.
Non-CDC affiliations should include city and state.
CDC contractors should use their contract company affiliation.
The first-initial-with-last-name@cdc.gov format is preferred over the userid@cdc.gov format for the email address.
If there is a group author on the byline, the group title and list of members may be included immediately after the text of the report and any general acknowledgements.
Provide author names (no degrees) and short affiliations (organization or location).
Reference this report for an example.
See examples below for preferred order and format: Report Title List of authors: Sharon Saydah, PhD1; Robert B.
Gerzoff, MS1; Christopher A.
Taylor, PhD2; Joshua R.
Ehrlich, MD3; Jinan Saaddine, MD, PhD1 1Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC; 2Division of Population Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC; 3Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
4.4 Acknowledgments List non-author contributors as “Person 1, Person 2, Affiliation 1; Person 3, Affiliation 2”; etc.
Do not include degrees.
Group together persons who are affiliated with the same CDC division or external entity and separate their names using commas; names are listed alphabetically unless the authors prefer otherwise.
Separate affiliations or group acknowledgments using semicolons.
Affiliations do not include city and state.
An example is provided below: All community members and service providers who participated in qualitative interviews; Sergio Caraballo, Sofia Mendez, Buena Gente Community Fund; Joshua Johnson, Green County Board of Health; Tegan Boehmer, Rachel Kaufmann, CDC; Elizabeth Smart, Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine.
4.5 References In text, number the references in order of appearance.
Place reference number callouts in parentheses inside of any punctuation.
Italicize the material within the parentheses only; do not italicize the parentheses themselves.
Do not include a space after the comma when listing multiple reference numbers.
For example: (1), (2,3), (1–3).
In the References section at the end of the report, list references in numeric order.
Follow the style of ICJME Recommendations (formerly Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts), available at  .
Preprints should be cited as references.
Do not use the references function of MS Word or reference manager software to create the reference list.
4.6 Footnotes Use the following footnote symbols in order of appearance: *, †, §, ¶, **, ††, §§, ¶¶, etc.
All symbols are superscripted except *.
Footnote symbols should be placed outside of any punctuation except semicolons and colons.
For example: “The study identified one patient with condition X,** and two patients with condition Y.††” Each footnote should be ≤80 words; the maximum length of all footnotes combined is 700 words.
Each footnote callout may only be used once in the body of the report.
Do not use the endnotes function of MS Word to create footnotes.
4.7 Summary Box The Summary Box contains the key public health message, as well as the justification for the publication.
It is a shorter version of and must only contain information provided in the Abstract.
Essentially, it is an abstract of the abstract.
It may be written in plainer language because it might be used in social media.
Active voice is preferred.
Use of first person (e.g., I, we, our) and directive language (e.g., “do this,” “don’t do this”) are not permitted.
4.7.1 Summary Questions and Answers The summary box provides brief answers (one or two short sentences each) to the three questions below.
The maximum length is 125 words total (100 words total for Notes from the Field), including the three question headings.
What is already known about this topic?
(align with background in Abstract) What is added by this report?
(align with results in Abstract) What are the implications for public health practice?
(align with public health message in Abstract and conclusion of report) 4.7.2 Summary examples Below are two summary box examples that meet the requirements.
Authors can refer to published reports for additional examples.
Summary What is already known about this topic?
Eight states, including Colorado, have legalized recreational marijuana use among persons aged ≥21 years.
The association between marijuana use and occupational injury is of public health concern.
What is added by this report?
During 2014–2015, 14.6% of 10,169 Colorado adult workers reported using marijuana in the previous 30 days.
The highest prevalences of current use were among young adults and men, and among adults working in the Accommodation and Food Services industry (30.1%) and Food Preparation and Serving occupation (32.2%).
What are the implications for public health practice?
By understanding the occupations and industries of workers who report recreational marijuana use, employers can develop appropriately targeted workplace marijuana policies and safety awareness campaigns.
Summary What is already known about this topic?
Surveillance is the cornerstone of polio eradication efforts.
What is added by this report?
In 2017, 22 wild poliovirus cases were reported from two countries (Afghanistan and Pakistan), the fewest number ever reported globally.
Polio cases caused by circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses increased from four in 2016 to 96 in 2017 because of large outbreaks in Syria and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Although surveillance performance indicators are improving at the national level, gaps remain, including at subnational levels.
What are the implications for public health practice?
As polio cases decline, sensitive and timely surveillance becomes even more important.
As long as polioviruses circulate in any country, all countries remain at risk.
4.8 Tables, Figures, and Boxes 4.8.1 Tables Create tables in MS Word or Excel.
Submit each table as a separate file; do not embed tables in the report text file.
Table titles should be descriptive and complete, including the who, what, where, and when of the data being presented, so that a reader can understand what the data represent without reading the text.
For tables listing epidemiologic data by geographic entity (e.g., region, division, state, locality, or city) or other categories such as race and ethnicity, MMWR prefers to publish table data with categories sorted alphabetically unless there is a clear low-to-high or high-to-low pattern that should be highlighted.
Tabs should not be used to create table columns or entries, and individual entries should appear in their own individual cells rather than separated by hard returns.
Cells cannot be empty.
To address, cells can be merged (e.g., works well for row and column headings), can include an em-dash as a placeholder for a numeric value, or can include indication that value was not calculated.
Cells cannot contain hard returns, tabs, or extra spaces.
Confidence intervals should be reported as a range within parentheses (e.g., (200–400)).
Do not report as a numeral followed by a ± symbol (e.g., 300±100).
Numbers and related percentages or confidence intervals should be placed in the same cell, not in separate columns.
Footnote symbols should be placed sequentially in the table, beginning with the title and then moving • from left to right, row by row in the table.
Use the following footnote symbols in order of appearance: *, †, §, ¶, **, ††, §§, ¶¶, etc.
The * symbol is not superscripted; all other symbols are superscripted.
Footnote callouts may be used more than once in a table.
Table footnotes do not count against the footnote limits for the text of the report.
Authors can review tables in recent (current or past year) online reports for style.
4.8.2 Figures Submit each figure as a separate file; do not embed figures in the report text file.
Figure titles should be descriptive and complete, including the who, what, where, and when of the data being presented, so that a reader can understand what the data represent without reading the text.
4.8.2.1 Types of Figures Diagrams and medical illustrations Charts and graphs Maps Photographic images 4.8.2.2 Figure Instructions All figures except photos should be created and submitted in vector format files such as .ai, .eps, and .wmf.
Photos should be submitted as high-resolution raster image format files such as .tif or .jpg.
Do not submit a figure with more than four panels.
Panels in multipanel figures should be related to each other.
Place key or legend within figure whenever possible.
Footnote symbols should be placed in the title, not within the figure.
Use the following footnote symbols in order of appearance: *, †, §, ¶, **, ††, §§, ¶¶, etc.
The * symbol is not superscripted; all other symbols are superscripted.
Figure footnotes do not count against the footnote limits for the text of the report.
Charts, Graphics, and Maps Bar and line graphs should have linked, underlying data tables.
Files created by vector programs are best for accurately plotting and maintaining data points.
MMWR is unable to use file formats native to statistical software applications to prepare figures for publication; most statistical software programs allow users to save or export files in digital vector formats.
Acceptable file formats are Adobe Illustrator (.ai), .eps, PowerPoint (.ppt), Excel (.xls), .wmf, Word (.docx editable not pasted into), .svg, and .pdf.
Do not use pie charts or 3D graphs.
Photographic images Images created digitally (by digital camera or electronically created illustrations) must meet the minimum resolution requirements (≥300 ppi) at the time of creation.
Electronically increasing the resolution of an image after creation causes a breakdown of detail and will result in an unacceptable poor-quality image.
Each component of a composite image must be uploaded separately at submission and individually meet the minimum resolution requirement.
Color photographs should be submitted in RGB mode using profiles such as Adobe RGB or sRGB.
Digital cameras capture images in RGB.
Do not change any color settings once the file is on the computer.
Black-and-white photographs (e.g., radiographs, ultrasound images, CT and MRI scans, and electron micrographs) may be submitted in either RGB or grayscale modes.
Acceptable file formats are Photoshop .psd or .tif, and .jpg.
4.8.3 Boxes Nonquantitative information unsuitable for tables or figures can be submitted as boxed text (typically a bulleted list).
During review and production, editors will make a final determination on the format of the information.
5.0 Clearance, Submission, and Acceptance 5.1 Clearance Reports, including any supplementary tables and figures, with at least one CDC author must be cleared at CDC before submission to MMWR.
Proof of completed clearance should accompany the submission of the documents.
The corresponding CDC author should ensure that the documents have received clearance from the following entities: All entities that are required to clear the report in accordance with the current CDC Clearance Policy.
Local and state health departments involved in the investigation or analysis (for states, usually the state epidemiologist).
Other federal agencies named in the report or that have a programmatic or regulatory interest in matters mentioned in the report.
Private-sector organizations, international health agencies, ministries of health, and other organizations at which any named author is employed, according to the clearance policies for that organization, agency, or ministry.
5.2 Submission In accordance with ICMJE recommendations , authors must state if any artificial intelligence (AI)–assisted technologies (e.g., large language models, chatbots, or image creators) were used in the development of their submitted work.
In both the cover letter and submitted work, authors should describe their use of this technology.
Authors should carefully review and edit the result, because AI can generate authoritative-sounding output that can be incorrect, incomplete, or biased.
Authors should assert that there is no plagiarism in their paper, including in text and images produced by the AI.
Humans must confirm that there is appropriate attribution of all quoted material, including full citations.
Authors must adhere to guidance outlined in the Author Submission Checklist at  .
The corresponding author should submit the final, cleared report through MMWR ScholarOne Manuscripts.
In separate attachments, the author should send the following items: Evidence of CDC clearance (if there is a CDC coauthor), The text, tables, figures, or boxes ICMJE disclosure of interest forms for all authors who are individually named on the byline.
Reports that include at least one CDC author and that have been cleared by CDC should be submitted to MMWR ScholarOne Manuscripts as a “CDC report” and not a “non-CDC report,” even if the first author or the corresponding author is not a CDC employee.
Unless MMWR has agreed to expedite publication, reports should be submitted at least 5 weeks (35 calendar days) before the desired Thursday issue date.
5.3 Acceptance MMWR editors determine acceptance of submissions.
Submissions that do not include CDC staff authors are first sent to CDC subject matter experts for opinions on suitability and relevance for MMWR.
If a report has at least one CDC author and has received CDC clearance, it should be submitted as a CDC report and not as a non-CDC report, even in the case where the submitting and corresponding author is not a CDC employee 6.0 Scheduling and Editing 6.1 Scheduling After a report has been accepted for publication, MMWR will assign a publication date, subject to author availability.
In general, it takes approximately 5 weeks from submission to publication of a full report.
During a large-scale public health emergency, this timeline can be extended for submissions unrelated to the emergency.
MMWR might agree to publish certain urgent reports on an expedited timeline.
Submission deadlines for reports that MMWR has agreed to expedite are established on an individual basis.
To request expedited publication, the Center Director from which the report originates must submit a request to the Editor-in-Chief (Michael Berkwits, mberkwits@cdc.gov) and copy the Acting Lead Technical Writer-Editor (Glenn Damon, gdamon@cdc.gov).
The request must include the rationale for expedited publication.
To assist programs and MMWR in planning and scheduling (e.g., in conjunction with health observances such as World AIDS Day), MMWR will, at times, issue tentative publication dates for reports that have not yet been accepted for publication.
6.2 Editing After a report is accepted and scheduled, MMWR technical writer-editors begin the final editing and production process, with responsibility of ensuring that reports conform to established editorial and MMWR style and format conventions.
Changes made during this process might differ from edits and revisions made during the clearance, review, and acceptance processes and from previously published MMWR reports.
7.0 Submitting Supplementary Tables and Figures Supplementary tables and figures are placed in CDC Stacks for online access and are not published with the report.
Authors can submit up to three supplementary tables and figures to MMWR with their report.
Alternatively, MMWR editors can suggest that content submitted with the report is more appropriate as a supplementary table or figure.
No other type of supplementary material is accepted.
Supplementary tables and figures are named inline in the report text; they are not cited in the references or footnotes sections.
The corresponding author is responsible for Ensuring that supplementary materials are 508 compliant (i.e., complies with Section 508 of the 1998 amendment to the Rehabilitation Act).
Updating supplementary materials based on feedback from MMWR science and technical writer-editors.
Submitting supplementary materials in CDC Stacks.
The corresponding author should begin the CDC Stacks process as soon as a technical writer-editor has been assigned to the report.
Below are the steps involved: MMWR technical writer-editor sends the corresponding author the CDC Stacks form with needed information (i.e., title of report, publication date of issue, volume and issue number, and date and time when materials need to go live).
Corresponding author submits request and form to CDC Stacks as soon as possible and copies the technical writer-editor.
CDC Stacks personnel sends URLs for the supplementary materials to the corresponding author.
Corresponding author sends URLs to technical writer-editor to include in the report text.
The assigned MMWR technical writer-editor Is not responsible for editing supplementary materials placed in CDC Stacks.
Might make formatting or editing suggestions to the author to ensure readability and consistency with the report.
Is available to answer any questions related to the process.
8.0 Prepublication Sharing of MMWR Reports 8.1 Authors To preserve the integrity of MMWR publications, authors should not disclose a submitted report’s title, content, or expected date of publication to others or the media before the embargo lifts.
Typically, the embargo lifts and reports are posted on the web on Thursday at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time.
Authors may only share the report with specialists who develop communications materials for their organization, with two restrictions: The communications specialists should not release their communications materials to the media before 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on a Wednesday before a regular Thursday web posting and 2 hours before web posting of an Early Release.
The media should be reminded of the time that the embargo lifts and that prepared communications materials can only be shared after this time.
Communication materials should not be shared with media before the timelines stated above unless granted previous permission from MMWR.
8.3 Partner organizations Communication materials should not be shared with partner organizations before the timelines stated above for media unless granted previous permission from MMWR.
If a trusted partner organization requires advance notice or limited preview of a forthcoming publication, authors must consult with the MMWR health communications team at MMWRcommunications@cdc.gov.
9.0 Guidance for Correcting Post-Publication Errors Corrections of errors preserve the integrity of the scientific and public health literature.
They also protect the reputations of authors, the MMWR Series, and CDC by demonstrating the commitment to ensuring accurate science in MMWR.
9.1 Errors Related to Small Portions of Text, Figures, or Tables Requests to publish corrections should be sent to your report editor, who will consult the managing editor to determine if an erratum is needed.
If an erratum is needed, your report editor will draft it for your review and will schedule it for publication in the Weekly as soon as possible.
9.2 Pervasive Errors Throughout the Text, Figures, or Tables If pervasive errors are brought to the attention of authors or MMWR editors, it’s our obligation to transparently correct the literature.
MMWR follows recommendations of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors and the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) .
After reviewing the nature and source of the errors for each case, MMWR will assess the report in collaboration with the CDC Office of Science and other CDC leadership, as indicated.
In cases with suspected scientific misconduct, the Office of Science will determine the appropriate corrective action.
In cases of inadvertent, pervasive errors, the MMWR Editor-in-Chief will determine the appropriate method for correcting the report based on current scientific publication guidance.
Below are the most likely paths for correcting inadvertent, pervasive errors.
For reports with pervasive errors but the corrections do not change the conclusions or interpretation of the report, MMWR will correct the literature through the mechanism of “Correct and Republish.” MMWR will follow National Library of Medicine guidance to ensure transparency and clarity for readers ( ).
For reports that have pervasive errors that change the interpretation or the conclusions when corrected, MMWR will correct the literature through the mechanism of “Retraction.” In collaboration with authors, MMWR will determine whether it is appropriate to also republish the report at the time of retraction, and MMWR will follow National Library of Medicine guidance to ensure transparency and clarity for readers.
NOTE: If pervasive errors have been identified, contact the Editor-in-Chief at mberkwits@cdc.gov and the Editor (Weekly) at jgindler@cdc.gov as soon as possible.
10.0 Contact Information Mailing address: Editor-in-Chief; Executive Editor; Editor (Weekly); Managing Editor; or Lead Technical Writer-Editor (Weekly), MMWR Office, Mailstop V25-5, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, NE, Atlanta, GA 30333.
Editor-in-Chief: Michael Berkwits, mberkwits@cdc.gov.
Executive Editor: Rachel Gorwitz (Acting), rgorwitz@cdc.gov.
Editor (Weekly): Jacqueline Gindler, jgindler@cdc.gov.
Editor (Weekly): Paul Siegel, pzsiegel@cdc.gov.
Managing Editor: Terisa F.
Rutledge, trutledge@cdc.gov.
Acting Lead Technical Writer-Editor (Weekly): Glenn Damon, gdamon@cdc.gov.
Last Reviewed: January 8, 2025 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate MMWR Reports by Topic Publications plus icon Vital Signs Infographics Podcasts Continuing Education MMWR Clinical Pearls For Authors About plus icon Subscribe plus icon Email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About OPHDST Surveillance Resource Center VIEW ALL View All SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 About OPHDST KEY POINTS The Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST) works to improve access to and use of public health data.
OPHDST aims to improve efficiency of data and technology systems across all levels of public health.
Improved efficiency of data systems and access to data can help states, tribes, localities, and territories (STLTs) make informed public health decisions.
Our mission OPHDST is leading efforts to improve the availability and use of public health data to inform decision-making and action across the public health ecosystem.
Our mission is to optimize timely access, exchange, and integration of public health data, while driving efficiency and consolidation of data and technology systems supported by CDC across all levels of public health and advancing open data and dissemination to inform decision making and action.
We are advancing data for public health action to empower CDC and STLTs to equitably protect health, safety, and security for all.
Our commitment The factors affecting our nation's health are wide-ranging—from the impacts of a global pandemic, to inefficient or underfunded systems, to new and changing health threats, natural disasters, bio-terrorism, access to healthcare, and the growing burden of noncommunicable diseases and drug overdoses.
These issues require strategic thinking, new ideas, flexibility and readiness to connect across disciplines.
OPHDST is dedicated to leading, coordinating and executing a comprehensive public health data strategy to address gaps in public health data and improve health outcomes for all.
OPHDST is made up of a team of experts with cross-functional knowledge and skills.
This team is mission-based and customer-focused.
National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) NCHS Director Brian Moyer, Ph.D.
The National Center for Health Statistics, the federal governments principal health statistics agency, is under OPHDST's structure.
This center compiles statistical information to guide actions and policies to improve the health of the U.S.
population.
Visit the website of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS).
Read about Dr.
Brian Moyer.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Our commitment National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) SOURCES PRINT SHARE OPHDST OPHDST is advancing data for public health action to empower CDC and STLTs to equitably protect health, safety, and security for all.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System What is Case Surveillance?
Case Surveillance Modernization Infectious Disease Tables Non-Infectious Disease Data Technical Resource Center Case Surveillance in Action Contact Us VIEW ALL Related Topics: NDC Application View All Contact Us SEPT.
8, 2025 AT A GLANCE For comments and questions, contact NNDSS by email.
How to contact NNDSS For comments about documents posted in the NNDSS Technical Resource Center, please send an email to the Electronic Data Exchange mailbox at edx@cdc.gov.
Please include the title of the specific document of interest in the email subject line.
For all other questions about the NNDSS website, email NNDSSweb@cdc.gov.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) NNDSS receives and shares case data from state, local, and territorial health departments to help public health monitor, control, and prevent serious diseases.
View All About National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System What is Case Surveillance?
CDC A-Z INDEX Training and Continuing Education Online (TCEO) TCEO Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact TCEO Email or Username Password Sign In Forgot Password?
| Forgot Username?
TCEO retired on January 17, 2025.
Training and Continuing Education Online (TCEO) was the primary system for access to CDC educational activities for continuing education (CE) since 2000.
Learners can now access non-credit and for-credit educational activities, and track your learning, including CE in one place - CDC TRAIN external icon !
CDC TRAIN is a part of the TRAIN Learning Network external icon , the most comprehensive catalog of shared public health training opportunities.
If you do not already have a free TRAIN account, please create one external icon .
If you already have a TRAIN account, you can add CDC to your account in your profile.
Learners must complete the CE process for certificates in CDC TRAIN.
Get your TCEO transcript or certificate If you completed activities in TCEO before 2025, you can still log in to access and download your CE transcripts and certificates in TCEO through December 31, 2025.
Please use the left navigation menu to locate your existing transcript and certificates, find answers to frequently asked questions, and contact learner support.
Page last reviewed: 01/15/2025 Page last updated: 01/15/2025 Public Health Infrastructure Center Division of Workforce Development Email Recommend Tweet YouTube Instagram Listen Watch RSS About CDC Jobs Funding Policies Privacy FOIA No Fear Act OIG Vulnerability Disclosure Policy CDC Website Exit Disclaimer 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta , GA 30329-4027 USA 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) , TTY: 888-232-6348 Email CDC-INFO U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services external icon HHS/Open external icon USA.gov external icon
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST) SEARCH About OPHDST Surveillance Resource Center VIEW ALL About OPHDST OPHDST works to improve the availability and use of public health data.
Learn More Our portfolio Advancing Data for Public Health Action Our vision expands on modernization efforts and focuses on critical components to advance data for p...
The Public Health Data Strategy Public Health Data Strategy landing page.
Data Modernization for Public Health Transforming data today to protect health tomorrow.
Organizational structure Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST) Explore organizational charts, structure and mission statement for OPHDST.
National Center for Health Statistics The nation's official source for health data Systems, tools and technology solutions OPHDST OPHDST is advancing data for public health action to empower CDC and STLTs to equitably protect health, safety, and security for all.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All JANUARY 18, 2024 National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) STAFF BIO Brian C.
Moyer, PhD, is the director for the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), which is the nation’s principal source for health statistical information to guide actions and policies to improve the health of people.
Role at CDC As director of NCHS, Dr.
Moyer is responsible for providing leadership for a wide-range of programs, including research and analysis in health and vital statistics, epidemiology, and related health and statistical sciences.
Previous experience Prior to this role, Dr.
Moyer served as the director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) where he oversaw BEA's production of official economic statistics and the collection and publishing of economic data and research and analysis.
He is a proven leader within the nation's statistical community and brings a wealth of knowledge and extensive experience to NCHS.
He has nearly three decades of experience at BEA in the U.S.
Department of Commerce, which, alongside NCHS, is one of the principal statistical agencies.
Throughout his career, he has excelled in leading the transformation of data collection and analysis systems to maximize their effectiveness, utility, and value.
He has overseen innovation efforts to modernize statistical concepts, methods, and operations, including expanded use of "big data" and associated platforms.
His leadership of collaborative scientific research has made full use of new methodologies and data sources to develop statistical products, including machine learning algorithms, artificial intelligence, administrative data, and private industry data sources.
He has worked alongside the academic community to continuously improve statistical concepts and techniques.
Education Dr.
Moyer received his bachelor's and master's degrees in economics from the University of Maryland.
He holds a Doctor of Philosophy in economics from American University and is a recipient of numerous awards for his management and leadership skills, as well as for improvements to the Bureau of Economic Analysis economic accounts.
ON THIS PAGE Role at CDC Previous experience Education SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics SEARCH About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS VIEW ALL Find our latest data and analysis View the NCHS calendar of recent and upcoming releases Learn More Teen Healthcare Use Reporting by Adults and Teens Suicide Rate Increased 31% from 2003 to 2023 Cardiovascular Disease Common Risk Factors in Adults Explore our data Data Query System Thousands of estimates on more than 180 health topics in one easy-to-use tool Publications Analysis of timely, accurate data to increase understanding of American health Linked Data Connected data from multiple sources to help answer complex health questions Health surveys and vital statistics Family Growth Survey Fertility, family formation, and reproductive health Health and Nutrition Examination Survey The only national survey with health exams and lab tests Health Care Surveys Monitoring healthcare use, access, and changes over time Health Interview Survey The nation's oldest and largest household health survey Rapid Surveys Getting the right data in the right hands at the right time Vital Statistics The most complete data on U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OPHDST.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OPHDST structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OPHDST Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH DATA, SURVEILLANCE, AND TECHNOLOGY, (CAK) Level 1 : Office of the Director, (C,A,K,1) Level 1.2: Office of the Deputy Director for Technology and Products, (C,A,K,1,2) Level 1.3: Technology Strategy Office, (C,A,K,1,2,2) Level 1.3: Technology Implementation Office, (C,A,K,1,2,3) Level 1.2: Office of the Deputy Director for Management and Operations, (C,A,K,1,3) Level 1.3: Office of Management and Operations, (C,A,K,1,3,3) Level 1.3: Office of Communications, (C,A,K,1,3,2) Level 1.2: Customer Success and Engagement Unit, (C,A,K,1,4) Level 1.2: Policy, Legislative Affairs, and Partnerships Unit, (C,A,K,1,5) Level 2 : Detect and Monitor Division, (C,A,K,B) Level 3: Public Health Data Transmission Branch, (C,A,K,B,B) Level 3: Integrated Monitoring Branch, (C,A,K,B,C) Level 2 : Investigate and Respond Division, (C,A,K,C) Level 3: Public Health Investigation Tools Branch (C,A,K,C,B) Level 3: Analytics and Operations Tools Branch, (C,A,K,C,C) Level 2 : Inform and Disseminate Division, (C,A,K,D) Level 3: Actionable Data Branch, (C,A,K,D,B) Level 3: Dissemination Technology and Services Branch, (C,A,K,D,C) Level 2 : Data Policy and Standards Division, (C,A,K,E) Level 3: Data Standards Branch, (C,A,K,E,B) Level 3: Data Policy Branch, (C,A,K,E,C) Level 2 : Platforms Division, (C,A,K,G) Level 3: Shared Technology Platform Branch, (C,A,K,G,B) Level 3: Shared Data Platform Branch, (C,A,K,G,C) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OLSS OPPE NCHS ORR VIEW ALL About CDC NCHS SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC-INFO SEARCH About Our Service Email CDC-INFO VIEW ALL ESPAÑOL CDC on Demand has been retired and publications are no longer available to order.
Trending Topics Bringing a Dog into the U.S.
CDC rules and regulations on bringing a dog into the U.S.
Respiratory Illnesses Learn what respiratory illnesses have in common and steps to help protect yourself and others.
Get Answers to Common Travel Questions CDC Resources in other languages CDC Division of Media Relations Request a Speaker NHSN Help Desk SAMS NHSN User FAQs Featured About Our Service CDC-INFO offers live agent services to help you find the latest and reliable health information.
Learn More CDC-INFO CDC-INFO offers live agent services to help you find the latest and reliable science-based health information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Office of Equal Employment Opportunity EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Us Programs Organization Policies Equal Employment Opportunity Violations No Fear Act Management Directive 715 Report Contact Us Notice to Employees VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 23, 2025 About OEEO WHAT TO KNOW The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO) is closed as part of HHS’s Reduction in Force, in accordance with President Donald Trump’s Executive Order 14210, dated February 11, 2025, and the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) broader reorganization strategy to improve its efficiency and effectiveness to make America healthier.
For additional information on the Federal sector EEO process, please visit the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) website at 
Our mission OEEO's mission is to end employment discrimination and promote equal employment opportunity in the workplace.
Vision To be a model EEO program that protects rights and serves all CDC staff.
Values CDC/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) are committed to a policy of nondiscrimination in all personnel practices.
This ensures equal opportunity for employment, promotion, and training for all segments of the workforce.
Priorities OEEO is committed to protecting the rights and providing applicants, employees, and the agency with essential information under Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) federal statutes, policies, regulations, and guidance.
Goals OEEO is a critical partner in achieving CDC and ATSDR’s public health goals.
Federal law protects you from being discriminated on the following bases: Race or color Religion Sex and pregnancy Age (40 or older) Disability National origin Retaliation Genetics Our office supports the agency’s responsibility of maintaining a model Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) program.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) guidelines states that model EEO programs address concerns under Title VII and Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act.
The six essential elements for a model EEO program, as outlined in the EEO Management Directive 715 are as follows: Demonstrated commitment from agency leadership Integration of EEO into the agency’s strategic mission Management and program accountability Proactive prevention of unlawful discrimination Efficiency Responsiveness and legal compliance SEE ALSO: Model EEO program If you have any questions, please contact us at 770-488-3210.
Our work OEEO leads efforts to track and report on objectives, strategies, and actions aligned with U.S.
EEOC mandates.
This ensures the agency's progress toward establishing a model EEO program.
The Affirmative Employment Program (AEP) Team supports CDC/ATSDR's goal of maintaining a workforce that represents the communities that we serve.
The AEP is an integral part of CDC's EEO program.
The Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Team is committed to preventing and managing disruptive workplace conflict.
They provide efficient and effective services to CDC/ATADR employees.
The EEO Complaints and Adjudication Team strives to handle all allegations of discrimination with great care.
CDC recognizes and values our employees and staff and takes pride in being a safe and healthy place to work.
The Reasonable Accommodation (RA) Team at CDC is committed to accommodating and ensuring the safety of persons with disabilities as mandated by the Rehabilition Act of 1973 and The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, As Amended.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Values Priorities Goals Our work SOURCES PRINT SHARE OEEO OEEO works to protect rights and provide applicants and employees with information and services required by federal statutes, policies, and regulations.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 17, 2024 Email Updates KEY POINTS Free CDC email service sends automatic updates on selected health topics.
Subscribers receive updates without revisiting the CDC website.
Add no-reply@emailupdates.cdc.gov to your address book to prevent your email provider's system from treating these messages as "Spam." CDC Email Updates CDC offers a free email subscription service.
You can sign up to receive email alerts when new information is available about the topics you select.
With a subscription profile, you get updated information that interests you.
Once you subscribe, you will get updates automatically without needing to return to the website to check for changes.
If you subscribe, your email address will be used only to deliver the requested information and to give you access to your user profile.
Subscribe to NCHS updates If you want to receive email updates from the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), read through our list of available update topics and click to subscribe.
Classification of Diseases, Functioning, and Disability Health, United States National Committee on Vital & Health Statistics (NCVHS) National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) Updates Prevent emails from being marked “SPAM” or “JUNK” Take steps to prevent CDC emails from being marked as "Spam" or "Junk Mail." Add no-reply@emailupdates.cdc.gov to your email address book.
Adjust your spam settings.
Check for and follow any additional instructions from your email provider to update your message delivery options.
These actions can help ensure email updates from NCHS and other CDC programs are delivered to your inbox.
Communicate with NCHS programs Many NCHS programs offer public listervs for direct communication.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 27, 2024 Webinars WHAT TO KNOW The National Center for Health Statistics hosts webinars showcasing our data, products, and services.
Find information about upcoming webinars on this page.
Access videos and slides from past webinars.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of Readiness and Response (ORR) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for ORR.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into ORR structure.
Organizational Structure Resources ORR Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF READINESS AND RESPONSE (CAD) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,A,D,1) Level 1.2: Information Resources Office, (C,A,D,1,2) Level 1.2: Office of Policy, Planning, and Communications, (C,A,D,1,3) Level 1.2: Office of Science and Laboratory Readiness, (C,A,D,1,4) Level 1.2: Management Resources Office, (C,A,D,1,5) Level 3: Division of State and Local Readiness, (C,A,D,B) Level 3: Field Assignments Branch, (C,A,D,B,B) Level 3: Grants Management and Fiscal Strategy Branch, (C,A,D,B,C) Level 3: Jurisdictional Readiness and Response Support Branch, (C,A,D,B,D) Level 3: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Development Branch, (C,A,D,B,E) Level 2: Division of Regulatory Science and Compliance, (C,A,D,C) Level 3: Federal Select Agent Program Operations Branch, (C,A,D,C,B) Level 3: Import Permit Program Operations Branch, (C,A,D,C,C) Level 3: Innovation and Information Technology Branch, (C,A,D,C D) Level 3: Biosafety, Science, Training and Expertise Branch, (C,A,D,C,E) Level 2: Division of Emergency Operations, (C,A,D,D) Level 3: Resource Support Branch, (C,A,D,D,B) Level 3: Operations Branch, (C,A,D,D,C) Level 3: Plans, Exercise, and Evaluation Branch, (C,A,D,D,D) Level 3: Emergency Management Training and Capacity Development Branch, (C,A,D,D,E) Level 2: Division of Readiness and Response Science, (C,A,D,E) Level 3: Community-Based Solutions and Health Equity Branch, (C,A,D,E,B) Level 3: Response Analytics, Decision Support, and Surveillance Branch, (C,A,D,E,C) Level 3: Public Health Readiness and Response Evaluation Branch, (C,A,D,E,D) Level 4: Center for Forecasting and Outbreak Analytics, (C,A,D,L) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OPHDST NCHS CFA OS VIEW ALL About CDC CFA SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) Search CDC's website is being modified to comply with President Trump's Executive Orders.
SAMS NHSN User FAQs Print What is SAMS?
How do I become a SAMS registered user?
How does a NHSN user get access to SAMS?
Is the Identity Verification process similar to a background check?
How often will I have to complete the SAMS registration process?
If I do not access SAMS monthly, will I lose access?
If I am in SAMS, can I still access Secure Data Network (SDN) applications that require digital certificates?
How often will I have to change my password in SAMS?
How do I change my SAMS password?
I’ve forgotten my SAMS password.
How can I reset it?
I need to update my personal information in SAMS (e.g., I got married and changed my name or my email address has changed).
How do I do that?
Can I only access SAMS on my work computer?
Will this migration affect my facility’s data that is already in NHSN?
Will this migration affect my ability to report data in NHSN?
Will this migration affect my ability to enroll additional facilities in NHSN?
Will this migration affect the data my facility shares with an NHSN Group, such as my state health department’s mandatory reporting Group?
Will this migration affect my facility’s ability to import data (CDA files from vendor software or csv procedure denominator files)?
Will this migration affect how I navigate within the NHSN application?
Will my grid card be mailed to me at my facility?
I’m an NHSN facility administrator who already accesses NHSN via SAMS and I’m about to hire a new IP.
When I add her as a new user in in my NHSN facility, do I have to ask CDC to invite her to SAMS?
When will the migration of all NHSN users to SAMS will be completed?
Does CDC reimburse for notary services in the SAMS process?
When should I expect to get my invitation to SAMS?
Is there anything I can do to prepare for SAMS now?
What happens if I lose my grid card?
What if the serial numbers on my SAMS grid card do not match the numbers listed on the letter that accompanied the card?
Getting Help What is SAMS?
CDC’s Secure Access Management Services (SAMS) is a federal information technology (IT) system that gives authorized personnel secure access to non-public CDC applications.
The SAMS partner portal is a website designed to provide centralized access to public health information and computer applications operated by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
SAMS provides healthcare facilities and partners, such as state health departments and QIOs, with secure and immediate access to the NHSN application.
Top of Page How do I become a SAMS registered user?
If you are new to NHSN, after completing the required NHSN training, and have reviewed and accepted the NHSN Rules of Behavior, you will then receive an invitation to SAMS from “SAMS No-Reply (CDC)”.
This is a valid and official email from CDC.
If you are an existing NHSN user and currently have an active digital certificate, the NHSN Program will reach out to you.
You will receive an invitation from ‘SAMS No-Reply (CDC)’.
This is a valid and official email from CDC.
However, please note that the timing of your migration to SAMS will be based partly on your digital certificate expiration date, but also upon how many SAMS applications can be processed by CDC per day.
Keep in mind that in order to access NHSN, you must have an active digital certificate or you must be “SAMified”, so you should continue to renew your digital certificate on an annual basis when you receive an email prompt to do so, until you receive an email invitation to register for SAMS.
If you are an existing NHSN user who already has access to SAMS, we will assess your current authorization access level, and if appropriate, you will receive an authorization email from SAMS stating that you gave been granted access to NHSN.
If additional verification credentials are required, the NHSN Program will reach out to you.
Top of Page How does a NHSN user get access to SAMS?
All NHSN users are invited to register for access to SAMS.
Registration is a 3 step process: Online Registration – First, you will receive an ‘Invitation to Register’ email.
This invitation will include instructions for the online registration process.
During registration, you will be asked to supply some basic information about yourself.
You will choose your personal SAMS password to help keep your account private and secure.
Identity Verification– Once NHSN user has completed the online registration, you will receive an email with instructions for Identity Verification.
In order to provide individuals with access to non-public information, U.S.
law requires that the identity of potential users is first verified – this step is critical in helping to protect people’s private data and in helping to prevent information misuse.
Please be assured that NHSN has made every effort to keep this necessary process as simple and non-intrusive as possible.
Also be assured that your registration materials will only be used to help determine your suitability for information access and that these materials will not be shared outside of NHSN.
Access Approval – Once your Identity Verification is complete, the access level most appropriate for your role will be determined and your SAMS account will be activated.
SAMS will send you an account activation email with a link to the SAMS portal page where you can begin using your applications.
Top of Page Is the Identity Verification process similar to a background check?
No, Identity Verification is only used to confirm that you have registered using your true identity and that no one else is attempting to impersonate you.
How often will I have to complete the SAMS registration process?
NHSN users will only be required to complete the SAMS registration process once, regardless of how many NHSN Components they use (e.g., a user at a facility that uses both the Patient Safety and the Healthcare Personnel Safety Components of NHSN will register for SAMS once) and regardless of how many CDC applications they have access to (e.g., a state health department employee who requires access to both NHSN and Epi-X will have to register for SAMS once).
SAMS accounts do not expire as long as users successfully log into SAMS at least once per 12 month period.
Top of Page If I do not access SAMS monthly, will I lose access?
If a NHSN user does not access SAMS in a 12 month period from their last successful login, their SAMS account will be terminated and the user will not be able to access NHSN applications via SAMS until they re-register for SAMS.
After their re-registration process has been completed, they will have access to NHSN again via SAMS.
They’ll remain active users in NHSN as long as they successfully login during a 12 month period or until their Facility Administrator deactivates them.
If I am in SAMS, can I still access Secure Data Network (SDN) applications that require digital certificates?
After a user’s migration to SAMS is complete, they will not have access to NHSN via SDN.
Some users, such as state health department employees who require access to other CDC applications that currently operate under SDN (e.g., Epi-X) will retain access to SDN until those applications transition to SAMS in the future.
Top of Page How often will I have to change my password in SAMS?
You will be prompted to change your passwords every 60 days.
Top of Page How do I change my SAMS password?
From the SAMS Welcome screen, click the Change My Password option.
Enter a password in the New Password field.
The password you select must meet the requirements specified on the screen.
Enter the same password in the Confirm New Password field.
Click Submit.
A Task Confirmation message displays.
Top of Page I’ve forgotten my SAMS password.
How can I reset it?
If you cannot log on to SAMS and you do not remember your password, go the login page and click “Forgot your password?
Click here.” A page will display that will allow you to identify yourself by answering the security questions you configured during your registration.
You will then be allowed to change your password.
Top of Page I need to update my personal information in SAMS (e.g., I got married and changed my name or my email address has changed).
How do I do that?
Log in to SAMS.
On the left side of the screen, click My Account.
Click Modify My Identity Data.
Modify the information displayed, and click Submit.
When the confirmation message is displayed, click OK.
Top of Page Can I only access SAMS on my work computer?
You can access SAMS from any computer.
Unlike a digital certificate, SAMS does not require installation.
Top of Page Will this migration affect my facility’s data that is already in NHSN?
No, it will not affect your data as SAMS is only a gateway to access NHSN.
All your facility’s information that is in NHSN, including surveys, data, location mappings, etc.
will be unaffected by NHSN’s migration to SAMS.
Top of Page Will this migration affect my ability to report data in NHSN?
No, it will not affect your ability to report data as SAMS is only a gateway to access NHSN.
NHSN’s migration to SAMS will not change the role or user rights that have been assigned to an individual by his or her facility administrator.
However, keep in mind that in order to access NHSN you must either be SAMified or you must have an active digital certificate, so you should continue to renew your digital certificate on an annual basis when you receive and email prompt to do so, until you receive an email invitation to register for SAMS instead.
Top of Page Will this migration affect my ability to enroll additional facilities in NHSN?
No, NHSN’s migration to SAMS will not affect a facility administrator’s ability to enroll additional facilities in NHSN as SAMS is only a gateway to access NHSN.
However, if a facility administrator no longer has access to “NHSN Enrollment” in SAMS, they will have to contact nhsn@cdc.gov to request it.
Top of Page Will this migration affect the data my facility shares with an NHSN Group, such as my state health department’s mandatory reporting Group?
No, NHSN’s migration to SAMS will not affect the data access your facility has granted to any NHSN Groups.
SAMS is only a gateway to access NHSN.
Top of Page Will this migration affect my facility’s ability to import data (CDA files from vendor software or csv procedure denominator files)?
No, NHSN’s migration to SAMS will not affect your facility’s ability to import data, whether you import CDA files from vendor software or you import your procedure denominator data using the csv file import option, as SAMS is only a gateway to access the NHSN application.
Top of Page Will this migration affect how I navigate within the NHSN application?
No, it will not affect your ability to navigate within NHSN as SAMS is only a gateway to access NHSN.
Top of Page Will my grid card be mailed to me at my facility?
Your SAMS grid card will be delivered to your home address via US Mail.
Top of Page I’m an NHSN facility administrator who already accesses NHSN via SAMS and I’m about to hire a new IP.
When I add her as a new user in in my NHSN facility, do I have to ask CDC to invite her to SAMS?
After the SAMS pilot phase is completed and general migration of NHSN users to SAMS begins, any person who is added as a new user in NHSN will automatically be invited to SAMS instead of being instructed to apply for a digital certificate.
Top of Page When will the migration of all NHSN users to SAMS will be completed?
NHSN expects to begin our general migration of all NHSN users to SAMS in late 2013.
We are planning a gradual migration since we will be limited by the number of SAMS applications that can be processed per day.
We anticipate that the migration of our more than 22,000 users will take approximately two years to complete.
Top of Page Does CDC reimburse for notary services in the SAMS process?
No, CDC does not reimburse for notary services in the SAMS process; however, there are free options (e.g.
within your facility or at your financial institution).
Top of Page When should I expect to get my invitation to SAMS?
The timing of your migration to SAMS will be based partly on your digital certificate expiration date, but also upon how many SAMS applications can be processed by CDC per day.
Keep in mind that in order to access NHSN you must have an active digital certificate or you must be SAMified.
You should continue to renew your digital certificate on an annual basis when you receive an email prompt to do so, until you receive an email invitation to register for SAMS instead.
Top of Page Is there anything I can do to prepare for SAMS now?
CDC doesn’t want to waste precious time and resources in attempting to migrate users who have retired or moved on to other jobs and no longer need NHSN access, so please periodically check the users in your NHSN facility and deactivate the profiles of any users who no longer need access.
Top of Page What should I do if I lose my grid card?
If you lose your grid card you should contact the SAMS Help Desk at samshelp@cdc.gov.
Top of Page What if the serial numbers on my SAMS grid card do not match the numbers listed on the letter that accompanied the card?
If this occurs please contact the SAMS Help Desk at samshelp@cdc.gov.
Top of Page Getting Help For SAMS Partner Portal Questions please contact the SAMS Help Desk at samshelp@cdc.gov.
NHSN questions may be directed to NHSN@cdc.gov.
Top of Page Training Newsletters / Members Meeting Updates E-mail Updates Health Department HAI/AR Programs Last Reviewed: March 15, 2023 Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP) Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home NHSN Home NHSN Login About NHSN plus icon NHSN’s Stated Purposes About NHSN Help Desk NHSN Administrator Training Data Use Agreements (DUA) with NHSN DUA FAQs for Health Departments and Facilities FAQs About NHSN Agreement to Participate and Consent NHSN Release Management FAQs About NHSN About SAMS SAMS NHSN User FAQs FAQs About NHSN Security Enroll Facility Here plus icon CMS Requirements plus icon Change NHSN Facility Admin Resources by Facility plus icon Patient Safety Component plus icon Long-term Care Facility Component plus icon Dialysis Component plus icon Biovigilance Component plus icon Healthcare Personnel Safety Component (HPS) plus icon Neonatal Component plus icon Outpatient Procedure Component plus icon NHSN and Social Determinants of Health NHSNCoLab NHSN Digital Quality Measures (dQMs) plus icon NHSN Reports plus icon Group Users Newsletters Data Validation Guidance Email Updates Quality Measure Endorsement HIPAA Privacy Rule plus icon email_03 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All Listservs For Everyone SEPT.
17, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Many programs at the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) have public listservs.
Fill out and submit the form on this page to subscribe to an NCHS listserv.
You must submit a separate request for each listserv you want to join.
Summary That National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) provides several electronic distribution lists—listservs—for communication between NCHS programs and subscribers.
Listservs are commonly used to provide program updates, release announcements, and even technical assistance.
To subscribe to a listserv, fill out and submit the form below.
If you want to subscribe to more than one list, you must submit the form separately for each list you want to join.
* Required field Email Address* Name* Label Text* Ambulatory Care List Birth Publications List National Hospital Care Survey Data List International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health Long-Term Care List National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) Researchers National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) Announcements NCHS Data Linkage Program NCHS Data Query System SubmitClear Form This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Get email updates You also can subscribe to email announcements from NCHS.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of Science (OS) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OS.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OS structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OS Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF SCIENCE (CAH) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,A,H,1) Level 2: Office of Science Dissemination, (C,A,H,B) Level 2: Office of Science Quality and Library Services, (C,A,H,C) Level 2: Office of Scientific Evidence and Recommendations, (C,A,H,D) Level 2: Office of Public Health Ethics and Regulations, (C,A,H,E) Approved 1/24/2023; Effective 2/8/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts ORR CFA OCoS OCOO VIEW ALL About CDC OCoS SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics SEARCH About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS VIEW ALL Find our latest data and analysis View the NCHS calendar of recent and upcoming releases Learn More Teen Healthcare Use Reporting by Adults and Teens Suicide Rate Increased 31% from 2003 to 2023 Cardiovascular Disease Common Risk Factors in Adults Explore our data Data Query System Thousands of estimates on more than 180 health topics in one easy-to-use tool Publications Analysis of timely, accurate data to increase understanding of American health Linked Data Connected data from multiple sources to help answer complex health questions Health surveys and vital statistics Family Growth Survey Fertility, family formation, and reproductive health Health and Nutrition Examination Survey The only national survey with health exams and lab tests Health Care Surveys Monitoring healthcare use, access, and changes over time Health Interview Survey The nation's oldest and largest household health survey Rapid Surveys Getting the right data in the right hands at the right time Vital Statistics The most complete data on U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics SEARCH About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS VIEW ALL Find our latest data and analysis View the NCHS calendar of recent and upcoming releases Learn More Teen Healthcare Use Reporting by Adults and Teens Suicide Rate Increased 31% from 2003 to 2023 Cardiovascular Disease Common Risk Factors in Adults Explore our data Data Query System Thousands of estimates on more than 180 health topics in one easy-to-use tool Publications Analysis of timely, accurate data to increase understanding of American health Linked Data Connected data from multiple sources to help answer complex health questions Health surveys and vital statistics Family Growth Survey Fertility, family formation, and reproductive health Health and Nutrition Examination Survey The only national survey with health exams and lab tests Health Care Surveys Monitoring healthcare use, access, and changes over time Health Interview Survey The nation's oldest and largest household health survey Rapid Surveys Getting the right data in the right hands at the right time Vital Statistics The most complete data on U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OCOO.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OCOO structure.
Organizational Structure Resouces OCOO Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER (CAJ) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,A,J,1) Level 1.1, Freedom of Information Act Office, (C,A, J,1,2) Level 2: Office of Financial Resources, (C,A,J,E) Level 2: Office of Human Resources, (C,A,J,Q) Level 2: Office of the Chief Information Officer, (C,A,J,R) Level 2: Office of Safety, Security & Asset Management, (C,A,J,S) Level 2: Office of Strategic Business Initiatives, (C,A,J,T) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OS OCoS NCBDDD NCCDPHP VIEW ALL About CDC NCBDDD SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational charts and structure for OCS.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OCS structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OCS Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF (CAT) Level 1: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR, (C,A,T,1) Level 1.1: Scheduling and Advance Team, (C,A,T,1,2) Level 1.1: Budget and Operations Management Team, (C,A,T,1,3) Level 1.1: Policy, Performance, and Coordination Team, (C,A,T,1,6) Level 2: Office of the Executive Secretariat, (C,A,T,C) Approved 6/20/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts CFA OS OCOO NCBDDD VIEW ALL About CDC OCOO SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCCDPHP.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCCDPHP structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCCDPHP Org Chart Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION NATIONAL CENTER FOR CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION AND HEALTH PROMOTION (C,L,) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,L,1) Level 1.2: Office of Public Health Practice, (C,L,C,1,2) Level 1.2: Office of Administrative Services, (C,L,1,3) Level 1.2: Office of Communication, (C,L,1,4) Level 1.2: Office of Informatics and Information Resources Management, (C,L,1,5) Level 1.2: Office of Policy, Planning, and Partnerships, (C,L,1,6) Level 1.2: Office of Medicine and Science, (C,L,1,7) Level 2: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, (C,L,B) Level 3: Epidemiology and Applied Research Branch, (C,L,B,B) Level 3: Cancer Surveillance Branch, (C,L,B,C) Level 3: Program Services Branch, (C,L,B,D) Level 3: Comprehensive Cancer Control Branch, (C,L,B,E) Level 2: Division of Oral Health, (C,L,C) Level 2: Division of Diabetes Translation, (C,L,D) Level 3: Surveillance, Epidemiology, Economics, and Statistics Branch, (C,L,D,B) Level 3: Program Implementation Branch, (C,L,D,C) Level 3: Translation, Health Education and Evaluation Branch, (C,L,D,D) Level 2: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity, (C,L,E) Level 3: Nutrition Branch, (C,L,E,B) Level 3: Physical Activity and Health Branch, (C,L,E,C) Level 3: Obesity Prevention and Control Branch, (C,L,E,D) Level 3: Program Development and Evaluation Branch, (C,L,E,E) Level 2: Division of Reproductive Health, (C,L,G) Level 3: Maternal and Infant Health Branch, (C,L,G,B) Level 3: Women's Health and Fertility Branch, (C,L,G,C) Level 3: Field Support Branch, (C,L,G,D) Level 2: Office on Smoking and Health, (C,L,H) Level 3: Epidemiology Branch, (C,L,H,B) Level 3: Health Communications Branch, (C,L,H,C) Level 3: Program Services Branch, (C,L,H,D) Level 3: Global Tobacco Control Branch, (C,L,H,E) Level 2: Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, (C,L,J) Level 3: Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch, (C,L,J,B) Level 3: Applied Research and Evaluation Branch, (C,L,J,C) Level 3: Program Development and Services Branch, (C,L,J,D) Level 2: Division of Population Health, (C,L,K) Level 3: Prevention Research and Translation Branch, (C,L,K,B) Level 3: Healthy Aging Branch, (C,L,K,C) Level 3: Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch, (C,L,K,D) Level 3: Population Health Surveillance Branch, (C,L,K,G,) Level 2: Division of Adolescent and School Health, (CL,L) Level 3: Program Development and Services Branch, (C,L,L,B) Level 3: Research Application and Evaluation Branch, (C,L,L,C) Level 3: School-Based Surveillance Branch, (C,L,L,D) Approved 9/29/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OCOO NCBDDD NCEZID NCEH VIEW ALL About CDC NCEZID SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCBDDD.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCBDDD structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCBDDD Org Chart NCBDDD Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION NATIONAL CENTER ON BIRTH DEFECTS AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (C,F) Level 1: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR, (C F,1) Level 1.2: Resource Management Office, (C,F,1,2) Level 2: DIVISION OF BIRTH DEFECTS AND INFANT DISORDERS, (C,F,B) Level 3: Birth Defects Monitoring and Research Branch, (C,F,B,B) Level 3: Infant Outcomes Monitoring, Research and Prevention Branch, (C,F,B,C) Level 2: DIVISION OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND DISABILITY, (C,F,C) Level 3: Child Development and Disability Branch, (C,F,C,B) Level 3: Disability and Health Promotion Branch, (C,F,C,C) Level 2: DIVISION OF BLOOD DISORDERS AND PUBLIC HEALTH GENOMICS, (C,F,D) Level 3: Blood Disorders Surveillance and Epidemiology Branch, (C,F,D,B) Level 3: Hemostasis Laboratory Branch, (C,F,D,C) Level 3: Public Health Genomics Branch, (C,F,D,D) Approved 06/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OCoS OCOO NCCDPHP NCEZID VIEW ALL About CDC NCCDPHP SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Prevalence of Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors in Adults: United States, August 2021–August 2023 Print NCHS Data Brief No.
540, September 2025 PDF Version (395 KB) Catharine A.
Couch, Ph.D., R.D., Rina Mascarenhas, B.S., Bryan Stierman, M.D., M.P.H., and Cheryl D.
Fryar, M.S.P.H.
On This Page Key findings During August 2021–August 2023, just over one-third of adults had no CVD risk factors.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors decreased with age, while having one or two or more risk factors was higher among older adults.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was highest among those with family income 350% or more of the federal poverty level.
The age-adjusted percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors increased between 2013–2014 and August 2021–August 2023.
Summary Definitions Data source and methods About the authors References Suggested citation Key findings Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey During August 2021—August 2023, 36.4% of U.S.
adults had no cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, 34.9% had one, and 28.7% had two or more.
A higher percentage of men (31.7%) than women (25.8%) had two or more CVD risk factors.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors decreased with age, and the percentage of adults with one CVD risk factor or two or more was higher among older adults.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was highest and the percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors was lowest among those with family income 350% or more of the federal poverty level.
From 2013—2014 to August 2021—August 2023, the percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors increased.
The American Heart Association’s “Life’s Essential 8” (LE8) is a metric with four behavioral factors and four health factors used to assess cardiovascular health (3,4).
Blood pressure, blood lipids, blood glucose, and body mass index (BMI), the four health factors of LE8, are cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors.
Having a greater number of these CVD risk factors is associated with increased risk of CVD and all-cause mortality (3,5).
This report presents prevalence estimates for none, one, or two or more of these CVD risk factors (uncontrolled high blood pressure, uncontrolled high blood lipids, uncontrolled high mean blood glucose as measured with hemoglobin A1c, and high BMI) in U.S.
adults during August 2021–August 2023.
Keywords: heart disease, blood pressure, lipids, glucose, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) During August 2021–August 2023, just over one-third of adults had no CVD risk factors.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was 36.4%; one risk factor, 34.9%; and two or more risk factors, 28.7%, during August 2021–August 2023 (Figure 1, Table 1).
The percentage of adults with no or one CVD risk factors did not differ between men and women.
More men (31.7%) than women (25.8%) had two or more CVD risk factors.
View Larger Data table for Figure 1 The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors decreased with age, while having one or two or more risk factors was higher among older adults.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors decreased with age, from 53.7% among adults ages 20–39 to 29.6% among adults ages 40–59 to 24.7% among those age 60 and older (Figure 2, Table 2).
The percentage of adults with one CVD risk factor increased with age, from 27.0% among adults ages 20–39 to 35.9% among adults ages 40–59 to 42.6% among those age 60 and older.
The percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors was lower in adults ages 20–39 (19.3%) compared with adults ages 40–59 (34.5%) and those age 60 and older (32.7%).
View Larger Data table for Figure 2 The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was highest among those with family income 350% or more of the federal poverty level.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was higher in adults with family income of 350% or more of the federal poverty level (FPL) (38.9%) compared with adults with family income less than 130% FPL (32.9%) and 130% to 349% FPL (33.3%) (Figure 3, Table 3).
The percentage of adults with one CVD risk factor did not differ between income groups.
The percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors was lower in adults with family income of 350% FPL or more (24.7%) compared with adults with family income less than 130% FPL (31.3%) and 130% to 349% FPL (32.6%).
View Larger Data table for Figure 3 The age-adjusted percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors increased between 2013–2014 and August 2021–August 2023.
From 2013–2014 to August 2021–August 2023, the age-adjusted percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors increased from 23.7% to 28.1% (Figure 4, Table 4).
Between the two most recent survey cycles, 2017–March 2020 and August 2021–August 2023, a significant decrease was seen in the percentage of adults with one CVD risk factor (from 37.2% to 33.9%), but no change was seen in the percentage of adults with no or two or more CVD risk factors.
View Larger Data table for Figure 4 Summary During August 2021—August 2023, nearly two-thirds of adults in the United States had at least one CVD risk factor (uncontrolled high blood pressure, uncontrolled high blood lipids, uncontrolled high mean blood glucose, or high BMI), and differences were observed by sex, age group, and family income.
Men were more likely to have two or more CVD risk factors compared with women.
The percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors was higher among older age groups.
The percentage of adults with no CVD risk factors was highest and the percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors was lowest among those in the highest income category.
From 2013—2014 to August 2021—August 2023, the percentage of adults with two or more CVD risk factors increased.
Continued monitoring of the prevalence of CVD risk factors will provide information on the cardiovascular health of adults in the United States.
Definitions Uncontrolled high blood pressure: A measured systolic blood pressure of 130 mm Hg or more or a diastolic blood pressure of 80 mm Hg or more (6), based on the average of three measurements.
People defined as having high blood pressure may or may not have been taking medication to lower their blood pressure.
Uncontrolled high blood lipids: Non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol greater than or equal to 190 mg/dL (3,7).
People defined as having high blood lipids may or may not have been taking cholesterol-lowering medication.
Uncontrolled high mean blood glucose: Hemoglobin A1c greater than or equal to 6.5% (8).
People defined as having high blood glucose may or may not have been taking medication to control blood glucose.
High body mass index (BMI): Calculated as weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared.
High BMI is defined as BMI of 30.0 or more, corresponding with the definition of obesity (3,9).
Federal poverty level (FPL): The ratio of annual family income to the federal poverty guidelines, expressed as a percentage.
Federal poverty guidelines are defined by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services to account for inflation, family size, and geographic location (10).
Data source and methods The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a cross-sectional, nationally representative sample of the U.S.
civilian noninstitutionalized population.
NHANES consists of home interviews and health examinations and laboratory tests in mobile examination centers.
The sample is selected through a complex, multistage probability design.
NHANES was conducted continuously from 1999 through March 2020, when data collection was paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In August 2021, NHANES resumed data collection with revised operations and procedures.
Details on these changes can be found elsewhere (11).
In the present analysis, data from the August 2021–August 2023 NHANES were used to estimate the prevalence of no, one, and two or more CVD risk factors and to test for differences between subgroups.
Four NHANES cycles (2013–2014, 2015–2016, 2017–March 2020, and August 2021–August 2023) were used to assess trends in the prevalence of no, one, and two or more CVD risk factors.
All participants age 20 and older with complete CVD risk factor data (blood pressure, blood lipids, mean blood glucose as measured with hemoglobin A1c, and BMI) were included.
Pregnant women were excluded.
Prevalence estimates were weighted using phlebotomy (blood draw) sample weights for August 2021–August 2023 and examination sample weights for cycles 2013–2014, 2015–2016, and 2017–March 2020 to account for the survey’s complex, multistage probability design.
Sample sizes are unweighted.
Standard errors of prevalence estimates were calculated using Taylor series linearization.
For August 2021–August 2023, differences in estimates between subgroups were tested using t tests.
Polynomial regression models were used to test for linear and quadratic trends, accounting for unequal spacing and lengths of survey cycles.
Statistical analyses were conducted using R version 4.4.1 and the R survey package.
About the authors Catharine A.
Couch, Rina Mascarenhas, Bryan Stierman, and Cheryl D.
Fryar are with the National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys.
References Ahmad FB, Cisewski JA, Xu JQ, Anderson RN.
Provisional mortality data—United States, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.
2023 May 5;72(18):488–92.
Curtin SC, Tejada-Vera B, Bastian BA.
Deaths: Leading causes for 2022.
Natl Vital Stat Rep.
2024 Dec;73(10):1–117.
DOI:  .
Lloyd-Jones DM, Allen NB, Anderson CAM, Black T, Brewer LPC, Foraker RE, et al.
Life’s essential 8: Updating and enhancing the American Heart Association’s construct of cardiovascular health: A presidential advisory from the American Heart Association.
Circulation.
2022 Aug 2;146(5):e18–e43.
Lloyd-Jones DM, Ning H, Labarthe D, Brewer LP, Sharma G, Rosamond W, et al.
Status of cardiovascular health in US adults and children using the American Heart Association’s new “life’s essential 8” metrics: Prevalence estimates from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), 2013 through 2018.
Circulation.
2022 Sep 13;146(11):822–35.
Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, Buroker AB, Goldberger ZD, Hahn EJ, et al.
2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Circulation.
2019 Sep 10;140(11):e596–e646.
Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Himmelfarb CD, et al.
2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Hypertension.
2018 Jun;71(6):1269–324.
Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, et al.
2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Circulation.
2019 Jun 18;139(25):e1082–e143.
American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee.
Diagnosis and classification of diabetes: Standards of care in diabetes–2024.
Diabetes Care.
2024 Jan 1;47(Suppl 1):s20–s42.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
BMI: Adult BMI categories.
2024 Mar 19.
Available from: 
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation.
2021 poverty guidelines.
Available from:  .
National Center for Health Statistics.
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey: Brief overview and analytic guidance.
NHANES August 2021–August 2023.
2024 Sep 20.
Available from: 
Suggested citation Couch CA, Mascarenhas R, Stierman B, Fryar CD.
Prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk factors in adults: United States, August 2021–August 2023.
NCHS Data Brief.
2025 Sep;(540):1–9.
DOI:  .
Copyright information All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated.
National Center for Health Statistics Brian C.
Moyer, Ph.D., Director Amy M.
Branum, Ph.D., Associate Director for Science Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys Alan E.
Simon, M.D., Director Lara J.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCEH.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCEH structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCEH Org Chart Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION NATIONAL CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH (CN) Level 1: Office of the Director (C,N,1) Level 1.2: Office of Communication, (C,N,1,2) Level 1.2: Office of Policy, Partnerships, and Planning, (C,N,1,3) Level 1.2: Office of Management and Analytics, (C,N,1,4) Level 1.2: Office of Science (C,N,1,5,) Level 2: DIVISION OF LABORATORY SCIENCES (C,N,B) Level 3: Inorganic and Radiation Analytical Toxicology Branch (C,N,B,B) Level 3: Clinical Chemistry Branch (C,N,B,C) Level 3: Organic Analytical Toxicology Branch (C,N,B,D) Level 3: Newborn Screening and Molecular Biology Branch (C,N,B,E) Level 3: Emergency Response Branch (C,N,B,G) Level 3: Nutritional Biomarkers Branch (C,N,B,H) Level 3: Tobacco and Volatiles Branch (C,N,B,I) Level 2: Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice (C,N,C) Level 3: Water, Food, and Environmental Health Services Branch, (C,N,C,B) Level 3: Asthma and Air Quality Branch (C,N,C,C) Level 3: Lead Poisoning Prevention and Surveillance Branch, (C,N,C,D) Level 3: Emerging Environmental Hazards and Health Branch, (C,N,C,E) Level 3:Environmental Public Health Tracking Branch, (C,N,C,G) Approved 1/26/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCCDPHP NCEZID NCHHSTP NCIRD VIEW ALL About CDC NCHHSTP SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCEZID.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCEZID structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCEZID Org Chart Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION (CDC) NATIONAL CENTER FOR EMERGING AND ZOONOTIC INFECTIOUS DISEASES, (CR) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,R,1) Level 2: Division of Foodborne, Waterborne and Environmental Disease, (C,R,B) Level 3: Enteric Diseases Epidemiology Branch, (C,R,B,B) Level 3: Enteric Diseases Laboratory Branch, (C,R,B,C) Level 3: Outbreak Response and Prevention Branch, (C,R,B,D) Level 3: Waterborne Disease Prevention Branch, (C,R,B,E) Level 3: Mycotic Disease Branch, (C,R,B,G) Level 2: Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, (C,R,C) Level 3: Travel Risk Assessment and Mitigation Branch, (C,R,C,B) Level 3: Immigrant and Refugee Health Branch, (C,R,C,C) Level 3: Travelers’ Health Branch, (C,R,C,D) Level 3: Port Health Protection Branch, (C,R,C,E) Level 3: Southern Border Health and Migration Branch, (C,R,C,G) Level 2: Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion, (C,R,D) Level 2.1: International Infection Control Activity, (C,R,D,1,2) Level 3: Immunization Safety Office, (C,R,D,B) Level 3: Clinical and Environmental Microbiology Branch, (C,R,D,C) Level 3: Prevention and Response Branch, (C,R,D,D) Level 3: Surveillance Branch, (C,R,D,E) Level 3: Epidemiology Research and Innovations Branch, (C,R,D,G) Level 3: Healthcare Systems Strengthening, Resilience, and Training Branch, (C,R,D,H) Level 3: International Infection Control Branch, (C,R,D,J) Level 3: Medical Product Safety Branch, (C,R,D,K) Level 2: Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, (C,R,E) Level 2.1: Prion and Public Health Office, (C,R,E,1,2) Level 3: Viral Special Pathogens Branch, (C,R,E,B) Level 3: Poxvirus and Rabies Branch, (C,R,E,C) Level 3: Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch, (C,R,E,D) Level 3: Chronic Viral Diseases Branch, (C,R,E,E) Level 3: Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch, (C,R,E,G) Level 2: Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation, (C,R,G) Level 3: Arctic Investigations Program, (C,R,G,B) Level 3: Epidemiology Laboratory Capacity and Informatics Branch, (C,R,G,C) Level 3: Rapid Response Research and Surveillance Branch, (C,R,G,D) Level 3: Office of Advanced Molecular Detection, (C,R,G,E) Level 2: Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases, (C,R,J) Level 3: Arboviral Diseases Branch, (C,R,J,B) Level 3: Bacterial Diseases Branch, (C,R,J,C) Level 3: Dengue Branch, (C,R,J,D) Level 3: Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch, (C,R,J,E) Level 2: Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, (C,R,K) Level 3: Malaria Branch, (C,R,K,B) Level 3: Parasitic Diseases Branch, (C,R,K,C) Level 3: Entomology Branch, (C,R,K,D) Level 3: Laboratory Science and Diagnostics Branch, (C,R,K,E) Approved 9/13/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCBDDD NCCDPHP NCEH NCHHSTP VIEW ALL About CDC NCEH SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD) SEARCH NCBDDD Organizational Chart About Us Who We Are Budget and Funding Select State-Based Activities and Funding Making a Difference Across the Lifespan Connect with Us Forecasted Funding Opportunity VIEW ALL About Spina Bifida Spina bifida is a condition that affects the spine and is usually apparent at birth.
Learn More Improving Folic Acid Intake Closing the gap: Folic acid fortification of corn masa flour and neural tube defect prevention.
About Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) Learn basic information about fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
Featured About Us NCBDDD strives to advance the health and well-being of our nation’s most vulnerable populations.
Who We Are Our leaders are passionate about health and committed to making a difference.
Budget and Funding View a breakdown of fiscal year funding allocations.
Select State-Based Activities and Funding NCBDDD extramural program funding based on fiscal year.
Connect with Us Connect with CDC social media tools.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD) NCBDDD strives to advance the health and well-being of the populations we serve.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search QuickStats From the National Center for Health Statistics Print loading...
This filtering area contains options for sorting data dynamically for easy discovery.
Filtering options include search by text, dropdowns for filtering based on various fields, and various sorting.
Search 0 content filters available.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone AUGUST 16, 2024 National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCIRD.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCIRD structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCIRD Org Chart Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR INFECTIOUS DISEASES (CJ) NATIONAL CENTER FOR IMMUNIZATION AND RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CJ) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,J,1) Level 2: Immunization Services Division, (C,J,B) Level 3: Immunization Operations and Services Branch, (C,J,B,B) Level 3: Vaccine Supply and Assurance Branch, (C,J,B,C) Level 3: Informatics and Data Analytics Branch, (C,J,B,D) Level 3: Surveillance and Epidemiology Branch, (C,J,B,E) Level 3: Health Education and Communication Branch, (C,J,B,G) Level 3: Applied Research, Implementation Science, and Evaluation Branch, (C,J,B,H) Level 3: Field Services Branch, (C,J,B,J) Level 3: Partnership and Health Equity Branch, (C,J,B,K) Level 2: Influenza Division, (C,J,C) Level 3: Virology, Surveillance and Diagnosis Branch, (C,J,C,B) Level 3: Epidemiology and Prevention Branch, (C,J,C,C) Level 3: Immunology and Pathogenesis Branch, (C,J,C,D) Level 3: Global Influenza Branch, (C,J,D,E) Level 2: Division of Viral Diseases, (C,J,D) Level 3: Polio and Picornavirus Laboratory Branch, (C,J,D,B) Level 3: Viral Vaccine Preventable Diseases Branch, (C,J,D,C) Level 3: Viral Gastroenteritis Branch, (C,J,D,D) Level 2: Division of Bacterial Diseases, (C,J,E) Level 3, Pneumonia and Streptococcus Epidemiology Branch, (C,J,E,B) Level 3, Meningitis, Pertussis, and Diphtheria Epidemiology Branch, (C,J,E,C) Level 3, Pneumonia and Streptococcus Laboratory Branch, (C,J,E,D) Level 3, Meningitis, Pertussis, and Diphtheria Laboratory Branch, (C,J,E,E) Level 2: Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Diseases Division (C,J,G) Level 3: Coronavirus and other Respiratory Viruses Laboratory Branch, (C,J,G,B) Level 3: Coronavirus and other Respiratory Viruses Surveillance and Prevention Branch, (C,J,G,C) Level 3: Coronavirus and other Respiratory Viruses Epidemiology Branch, (C,J,G,D) Level 3: Global Coronavirus and other Respiratory Viruses Branch, (C,J,G,E) Approved 7/17/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCEH NCHHSTP NCIPC NCSTLTPHIW VIEW ALL About CDC NCIPC SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) SEARCH Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research VIEW ALL About the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases NCEZID works to prevent, detect, and respond to emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases.
Our Topics NCEZID's work covers diseases from A to Z - anthrax to Zika.
Learn about our center's topics.
NCEZID Leadership NCEZID Divisions and Offices Our Priorities Our Partners Featured Careers Learn about career opportunities at NCEZID.
Grants and Funding Find funding opportunities from NCEZID.
Additional Resources Laws and Regulations Data and Research NCEZID Organizational Chart NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About FASDs Treatment Data and Statistics on FASDs FASD Resources Real Stories: Living with FASDs VIEW ALL Health Care Providers FASDs: Online Trainings and Resources VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Alcohol Use During Pregnancy View All About Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) MAY 8, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS FASDs are a group of conditions that can occur in a person who was exposed to alcohol before birth.
FASDs can have lifelong effects, including problems with behavior and learning as well as physical problems.
What it is Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person exposed to alcohol before birth.
These conditions can affect each person in different ways and can range from mild to severe.
People with FASDs can have lifelong effects, including problems with behavior and learning as well as physical problems.
FASDs are preventable if a developing baby is not exposed to alcohol.
Video Series: Lived Experiences with FASDs Individuals and families share their stories about what it’s like to have FASDs.
Signs and symptoms A person with an FASD might have: Behavioral issues Hyperactive behavior Difficulty with attention Poor reasoning and judgment skills Learning challenges Poor memory Learning disabilities Speech and language delays Intellectual disability or low IQ Difficulty in school (especially with math) Physical problems Low body weight Poor coordination Problems with the heart, kidneys, or bones Shorter-than-average height Vision or hearing problems Small head size Sleep and sucking problems as a baby Abnormal facial features, such as a smooth ridge between the nose and upper lip (this ridge is called the philtrum) Causes FASDs can occur when a person is exposed to alcohol before birth.
Alcohol in the mother's blood passes to the baby through the umbilical cord.
There is no known safe amount of alcohol during pregnancy or when trying to get pregnant.
There is also no safe time to drink during pregnancy.
Alcohol can cause problems for a developing baby throughout pregnancy, including before a woman knows she's pregnant.
All types of alcohol are equally harmful, including all wines and beer.
KEEP READING About Alcohol Use During Pregnancy Reducing risk To prevent FASDs, a woman should avoid alcohol if she is pregnant or might be pregnant.
This is because a woman could get pregnant and not know for up to 4 to 6 weeks.
It is never too late to stop alcohol use during pregnancy.
Because brain growth takes place throughout pregnancy, stopping alcohol use will improve the baby's health and well-being.
Diagnosis Different FASD diagnoses are based on particular symptoms and include: Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS): FAS represents the most involved end of the FASD spectrum.
People with FAS have central nervous system (CNS) problems, minor facial features, and growth problems.
People with FAS can have problems with learning, memory, attention span, communication, vision, or hearing.
They might have a mix of these problems.
People with FAS often have a hard time in school and trouble getting along with others.
Partial fetal alcohol syndrome (pFAS): When a person does not meet the full diagnostic criteria for FAS but has a history of prenatal alcohol exposure and some of the facial features, as well as a growth problem or CNS abnormalities, the person is considered to have pFAS.
Alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND): People with ARND might have intellectual disabilities and problems with behavior and learning.
They might do poorly in school and have difficulties with math, memory, attention, judgment, and poor impulse control.
Alcohol-related birth defects (ARBD): People with ARBD might have problems with the heart, kidneys, or bones or with hearing.
They might have a mix of these.
Neurobehavioral disorder associated with prenatal alcohol exposure (ND-PAE): A child or youth with ND-PAE will have problems in three areas: (1) thinking and memory, where the child may have trouble planning or may forget material he or she has already learned, (2) behavior problems, such as severe tantrums, mood issues (for example, irritability), and difficulty shifting attention from one task to another, and (3) trouble with day-to-day living, which can include problems with bathing, dressing for the weather, and playing with other children.
In addition, to be diagnosed with ND-PAE, the mother of the child must have consumed more than minimal levels of alcohol before the child's birth (defined as more than 13 alcoholic drinks per month of pregnancy or more than 2 alcoholic drinks in one sitting).
ND-PAE was introduced into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-Fifth Edition (DSM-5) in 2013 as a condition for further study and a specifier for intellectual disability.
Areas evaluated for FASD diagnoses The term FASDs is not meant for use as a clinical diagnosis.
If your child is diagnosed with an FASD, the diagnosis will be for a specific condition under the umbrella of FASDs, as listed above.
Diagnosing FASDs can be hard because there is no medical test, like a blood test, for these conditions.
And other disorders, such as ADHD (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) and Williams syndrome, have some symptoms like FAS.
To diagnose FASDs, healthcare providers look for: Prenatal alcohol exposure, although confirmation is not required for diagnosis Central nervous system problems (e.g., small head size, problems with attention and hyperactivity, poor coordination) Lower-than-average height, weight, or both Abnormal facial features (e.g., smooth ridge between nose and upper lip) If you're concerned If you think there could be a problem, ask your healthcare provider for a referral to a specialist (someone who knows about FASDs).
Specialists could be a developmental pediatrician, child psychologist, or clinical geneticist.
In some cities, there are clinics whose staff members have special training in diagnosing and treating children with FASDs.
To find healthcare providers and clinics in your area, contact FASD United's (formerly NOFAS) Family Navigator program which provides individuals living with FASDs and their family members and caregivers with expert, confidential support and referrals.
FASD United also has a searchable Resource Directory .
At the same time as you ask your healthcare provider for a referral to a specialist, call your state or territory's early intervention program.
Request a free evaluation to find out if your child can get services to help.
This is sometimes called a Child Find evaluation.
You do not need to wait for a healthcare provider's referral or a medical diagnosis to make this call.
Where to call for a free evaluation from the state depends on your child's age: Younger than 3 years old: Call your state or territory's early intervention program.
Say, "I have concerns about my child's development.
I would like to have my child evaluated to find out if they are eligible for early intervention services." 3 years old or older: Contact your local public school system.
Even if your child is not old enough for kindergarten or enrolled in a public school, call your local elementary school or board of education.
Ask to speak with someone who can help you have your child evaluated.
ON THIS PAGE What it is Signs and symptoms Causes Reducing risk Diagnosis If you're concerned SOURCES PRINT SHARE Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are a group of preventable conditions that can occur in a person who was exposed to alcohol before birth.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Folic Acid EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Toolkits  Toolkit Community Resources From Heritage to Health Toolkit VIEW ALL View All Improving Folic Acid Intake MAY 20, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Hispanic/Latina women are more likely to have a child born with a neural tube defect (NTD) than non-Hispanic White and Black women.
Folic acid fortification of corn masa flour could help prevent NTDs.
More work is needed to improve folic acid intake among Hispanic/Latina women.
Populations impacted Research shows that some women in the United States do not get enough folic acid to prevent neural tube defects (NTDs).
Hispanic/Latina women are more likely to have a child born with an NTD than non-Hispanic White and Black women.123 Barriers to folic acid intake Research shows Hispanic/Latina women face unique challenges in meeting folic acid recommendations.
These include: Lower levels of folate: Compared with non-Hispanic White women, Hispanic/Latina women have lower levels of folate in their blood.4 More likely to have an MTHFR C677T gene variant: Hispanic/Latina women are more likely than non-Hispanic White and Black women to have the MTHFR C677T gene variant.5 Low level of awareness of folic acid benefits: Hispanic/Latina women have low levels of awareness of the benefits of folic acid.6 Lower folic acid intake: Hispanic/Latina women are less likely to get folic acid from fortified foods or take a multivitamin containing folic acid.
Lower intake is more common among women who primarily speak Spanish, were born outside the United States, and have lived in the United States for a shorter period of time.6789101112 Overcoming barriers To help more Hispanic/Latina women get the recommended daily value of folic acid, the US Food and Drug Administration allowed folic acid to be added voluntarily to corn masa flour.
Corn masa flour is a staple in the diets of many Hispanic/Latina women.
Corn masa flour is used to make foods such as tortillas and tamales.
The benefits of adding folic acid to corn masa flour include: Increased folic acid intake: Adding folic acid to corn masa flour can help increase the average amount of daily folic acid Hispanic/Latina women get.13 Prevention of NTDs: Fortifying corn masa flour with folic acid can contribute to the prevention of NTDs among Hispanic infants.9 What CDC is doing Data from 2011–2020 have shown that voluntary folic acid fortification of corn masa flour has not yet improved folate status among Hispanic/Latina women.
It's important to check food labels, as specific corn masa flours may or may not contain added folic acid.14 CDC continues to monitor trends in folate levels, consumption, knowledge, and practices among women using different surveys and research methods.
Our research aims to better understand and reduce risks for NTDs.
ON THIS PAGE Populations impacted Barriers to folic acid intake Overcoming barriers What CDC is doing SOURCES PRINT SHARE Folic Acid Folic acid is a B vitamin.
If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before and during pregnancy, it can help prevent major birth defects of the baby’s brain and spine.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics SEARCH Press Releases Upcoming Releases Most Recent Data Contact Us VIEW ALL NCHS Pressroom Upcoming Releases Learn what health data NCHS will publish in the next weeks Learn More Teen Healthcare Use Reporting by Adults and Teens Most Recent Data Find the latest data on a range of health topics Stats of the States NCHS creates data maps for births, deaths, and vital statistics for all 50 U.S.
states Stat of the Day National Health Interview Survey Dig into today's NCHS statistic on a relevant health topic Learn More Resources QuickStats View charts and graphs highlighting current key public health data trends Press Releases Explore press releases announcing publication of NCHS statistical reports Contact Us 2025 Publication Schedule Interactive Data NCHS Blog National Center for Health Statistics What’s new National Center for Health Statistics NCHS collects, analyzes, and disseminates timely, relevant, and accurate health data and statistics to inform the public and guide program and policy decisions to improve our nation’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce (NCSTLTPHIW) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCSTLTPHIW.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCSTLTPHIW structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCSTLTPHIW Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION NATIONAL CENTER FOR STATE, TRIBAL, LOCAL, AND TERRITORIAL PUBLIC HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE AND WORKFORCE (CH) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,H,1) Level 1.2: Office of Tribal Affairs and Strategic Alliances, (C,H,1,2) Level 1.2: Office of Rural Health, (C,H,1,3) Level 2: Division of Jurisdictional Support, (C,H,B) Level 3: Capacity Building and Strategic Resource Management Branch, (C,H,B,B) Level 3: Public Health Infrastructure Capacity Building and Implementation Branch, (C,H,B,C) Level 3: Program Services and Innovation Branch, (C,H,B,D) Level 2: Division of Partnership Support, (C,H,C) Level 3: Partnership Resources Management Branch, (C,H,C,B) Level 3: Partnerships and Performance Improvement Branch, (C,H,C,C) Level 2: Division of Workforce Development, (C,H,D) Level 3: Education and Training Services Branch, (C,H,D,B) Level 3: Epidemiology and Laboratory Workforce Branch, (C,H,D,C) Level 3: Field Services Workforce Branch, (C,H,D,D) Level 3: Public Health Workforce Branch, (C,H,D,E) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCIRD NCIPC OHR OFR VIEW ALL About CDC OHR SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 11, 2024 National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and center structure for NCIPC.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into NCIPC structure.
Organizational Structure Resources NCIPC Org Chart Website DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION (CDC) NATIONAL CENTER FOR INJURY PREVENTION AND CONTROL, (CE) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,E,1) Level 2: Office of the Deputy Director, (C,E,1,B) Level 2.1: Office of Science, (C,E,1,B,2) Level 2.1: Office of Strategy and Innovation, (C,E,1,B,3) Level 2.1: Office of Informatics, (C,E,1,B,4) Level 2: Office of the Deputy Director for Management and Operations, (C,E,1,C) Level 2.1: Office of Policy and Partnerships, (C,E,1,C,2) Level 2.1: Office of Program Management and Operations, (C,E,1,C,3) Level 2.1: Office of Communication, (C,E,1,C,4) Level 2: Division of Violence Prevention, (C,E,B) Level 2.1: Office of Policy, Partnerships, and Communication, (C,E,B,1,2) Level 2.1: Office of the Senior Director for Scientific Programs, (C,E,B,1,3) Level 2.2: Office of the Associate Director for Science, (C,E,B,1,3,b) Level 2.1: Office of the Deputy Director for Management and Program Operations, (C,E,B,1,4) Level 2.2: Office of Management and Program Operations, (C,E,B,1,4,b) Level 3: Surveillance Branch, (C,E,B,B) Level 3: Research and Evaluation, (C,E,B,C) Level 3: Violence Prevention Practice and Translation Branch, (C,E,B,D) Level 3: Field Epidemiology and Prevention Branch, (C,E,B,E) Level 3: Community Violence Prevention Practice and Translation Branch, (C,E,B,G) Level 2: Division of Injury Prevention, (C,E,C) Level 2.1: Office of Science, (C,E,C,1,2) Level 2.1: Office of Policy and Partnerships, (C,E,C,1,3) Level 2.1: Office of Management and Operations, (C,E,C,1,4) Level 2.1: Office of Communication, (C,E,C,1,5) Level 3: Applied Sciences Branch, (C,E,C,B) Level 3: Program Implementation and Evaluation Branch, (C,E,C,C) Level 3: Data Analytics Branch, (C,E,C,D) Level 3, Behavioral Integration Branch, (C,E,C,E ) Level 2: Division of Overdose Prevention, (C,E,D) Level 2.1: Office of Policy, Partnerships, and Communication, (C,E,D,1,2) Level 2.1: Office of the Associate Director for Program Implementation, (C,E,D,1,3) Level 2.1: Office of the Associate Director for Scientific Programs, (C,E,D,1,4) Level 2.2: Office of the Associate Director for Science, (C,E,D,1,4,b) Level 2.1: Office of the Deputy Director for Management and Program Operations, (C,E,D,1,5) Level 2.2: Office of Management and Program Operations, (C,E,D,1,5,b) Level 3: Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch, (C,E,D,B) Level 3: Health Systems and Research Branch, (C,E,D,C) Level 3: Prevention Programs and Evaluation Branch, (C,E,D,D) Level 3: Drug-Free Communities Branch, (C,E,D,E) Level 3: Communications Branch, (C,E,D,G) Level 3: State Program Implementation Branch, (C,E,D,H) Approved 8/21/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCHHSTP NCIRD NCSTLTPHIW OHR VIEW ALL About CDC NCSTLTPHIW SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD) SEARCH NCBDDD Organizational Chart About Us Who We Are Budget and Funding Select State-Based Activities and Funding Making a Difference Across the Lifespan Connect with Us Forecasted Funding Opportunity VIEW ALL About Spina Bifida Spina bifida is a condition that affects the spine and is usually apparent at birth.
Learn More Improving Folic Acid Intake Closing the gap: Folic acid fortification of corn masa flour and neural tube defect prevention.
About Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) Learn basic information about fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
Featured About Us NCBDDD strives to advance the health and well-being of our nation’s most vulnerable populations.
Who We Are Our leaders are passionate about health and committed to making a difference.
Budget and Funding View a breakdown of fiscal year funding allocations.
Select State-Based Activities and Funding NCBDDD extramural program funding based on fiscal year.
Connect with Us Connect with CDC social media tools.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD) NCBDDD strives to advance the health and well-being of the populations we serve.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Folic Acid EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Toolkits  Toolkit Community Resources From Heritage to Health Toolkit VIEW ALL View All For Everyone MAY 20, 2025 Folic Acid: Sources and Recommended Intake KEY POINTS Folic acid is a form of folate found in fortified foods and vitamins.
Including fortified foods and vitamins in your diet can help you get 400 micrograms of folic acid daily.
Check nutrition and supplement labels on products to ensure they contain folic acid.
Overview CDC recommends all women capable of becoming pregnant get 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid daily.
Getting 400 mcg of folic acid each day helps prevent some serious birth defects called neural tube defects (NTDs).
There are multiple ways to meet this recommendation.
You can get folic acid from supplements, such as vitamins, or from foods where folic acid has been added, such as enriched bread.
It is also important to have a varied diet with folate-rich foods such as dark green leafy vegetables and beans.
Terms to know Fortification is a way to add vitamins or minerals, or both, to foods.
Flours, pastas, breads, rice, and breakfast cereals fortified with folic acid will be labeled "enriched." Mandatory fortification requires food manufacturers to add certain vitamins or minerals, or both, to specified foods.
This is done to address a significant public health need.
For example, fortification of cereal grains with folic acid is mandated in the United States to help reduce the occurrence of NTDs.
Voluntary fortification allows food manufacturers to add vitamins or minerals, or both, to foods.
Manufacturers need to follow the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) food additive regulations.
Dietary supplements are products taken by mouth that contain ingredients intended to add nutrients to the diet.
Vitamins are a type of dietary supplement that can contain folic acid.
Folic acid is a proven option for NTD prevention.
Folic acid is a form of folate designed to be highly stable to heat and light exposure.
It is more stable than food folate, and it remains stable even through cooking or baking.
This allows it to remain active in supplements and fortified food products.
Folic acid is the only form of folate shown to help prevent NTDs.
Sources of folic acid Fortified foods Fortified foods provide an important source of folic acid.
Folic acid is added to some staple foods to help people meet their daily needs.
Foods fortified with folic acid include some flours, breads, pastas, rice, and breakfast cereals.
These products are labeled as "enriched."1 Supplements Taking a daily vitamin with 400 mcg of folic acid helps ensure you're getting enough to prevent NTDs.
Generally, vitamins contain folic acid and have 400 to 800 mcg of folic acid.
However, some vitamins now list other forms of folate (such as 5-MTHF) instead of folic acid.
These types of folate found in supplements are called "natural," but they are not the same as naturally occurring food folate.
It's important to check the Supplement Facts label to ensure your vitamins contain folic acid.
Folic acid is the only form of folate shown to help prevent NTDs.
No scientific studies exist that show that supplements containing other forms of folate can prevent these conditions.
What the research shows Folic acid fortification and supplementation have proven effective in preventing NTDs.
Since mandatory fortification began in 1998, about 1,300 babies are born each year without an NTD who might otherwise have been affected.2 Folic acid in foods helps prevent 1,300 NTDs annually in the United States.
However, certain groups remain at higher risk for having a pregnancy affected by NTDs.
Research shows Hispanic/Latina women still have lower folate levels.34 In an effort to close this gap, the FDA allowed voluntary folic acid fortification of corn masa flour in 2016.
KEEP READING: Improving Folic Acid Intake National surveys in the United States show daily multivitamin use has declined among women aged 18–44 years.
Specifically, daily use declined among women aged 25-44 years and among Hispanic/Latina and non-Hispanic White women, while use among other groups remained unchanged.5 A CDC study found that about half of women report eating enriched cereal grain products as their only source of folic acid.6 Consuming folic acid from both supplements and fortified foods could help more women meet the recommended 400 mcg daily.
This could potentially prevent up to 700 additional NTDs annually.
Tips for getting enough folic acid Here are some tips to help ensure you're getting enough folic acid: 1.
Take a vitamin with folic acid.
When taking supplements, more is not better.
Look for vitamins that have 400 mcg of folic acid.
You can find them at pharmacies, grocery stores, or discount stores.
If taking a vitamin upsets your stomach, try taking it with food or just before bed.
If you have trouble taking pills, try a chewable vitamin.
Also, be sure to take it with a full glass of water.
Eat fortified foods.
Some flours, breads, pastas, rice and breakfast cereals have folic acid added.
These products are labeled as "enriched." 3.
Combine both approaches.
You can take a vitamin with folic acid and eat fortified foods to ensure you are getting enough folic acid.
It is also important to eat folate-rich foods as part of a balanced diet.
Overall, remember to check your vitamins and food labels to ensure they contain folic acid.
Checking the label Nutrition and supplement labels show folate content in mcg dietary folate equivalent (DFE) and mcg folic acid per serving.
For example, the label below shows "667 mcg DFE (400 mcg folic acid)." This means that 400 mcg of folic acid is part of the total folate (667 mcg DFE) per serving.
This supplement label shows it contains 400 mcg of folic acid.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Terms to know Sources of folic acid What the research shows Tips for getting enough folic acid RELATED PAGES About Safety Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VIEW ALL Folic Acid Safety SOURCES PRINT SHARE Folic Acid Folic acid is a B vitamin.
If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before and during pregnancy, it can help prevent major birth defects of the baby’s brain and spine.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 Office of Financial Resources (OFR) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OFR.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OFR structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OFR Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION ( C,D,C ) OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, (C, A, J) OFFICE OF THE FINANCIAL RESOURCES, (C, A, J, E) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C, A, J, E, 1) Level 1.1: Office of Management Services, (C , A, J, E, 1, 3) Level 1.1: Office of Financial Information Systems, (C, A, J, E, 1 ,6) Level 1.1: Office of Policy, Performance, and Communications, (C, A, J, E, 1, 7) Level 1.1: Office of Risk Management and Internal Controls, (C, A, J, E, 1, 8) Level 2: Office of Finance and Accounting Services, (C, A, J, E, U) Level 3: Accounting Branch, (C, A, J, E, U, B) Level 3: Commercial Payment Branch, (C, A, J, E, U, D) Level 3: Debt Management Branch, (C, A, J, E, U, E) Level 3: Travel, IPAC, and International Payment Branch, (C, A, J, E, H, G) Level 2: Office of Budget Services, (C,A,J,E,V) Level 3: Budget Control and Compliance Services Branch 1, (C, A, J, E, V, B) Level 3: Budget Planning and Analytics Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, V, K) Level 3: Training, Development, and Specialized Funding Budget Execution Services Branch 3, (C, A, J, E, V, L) Level 3: Budget Execution Services Branch 1, (C, A, J, E, V, M) Level 3: Budget Execution Services Branch 2, (C, A, J, E, V, N) Level 3: Budget Execution Services Branch 3, (C, A, J, E, V, P) Level 3: Budget Execution Services Branch 4, (C, A, J, E, V, Q) Level 3 - Budget Formulation and Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, V, R) Level 2: Office of Acquisition Services, (C,A,J,E,W) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 1, (C, A, J, E, W, B) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 2, (C, A, J, E, W, C) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 3, (C, A, J, E, W, D) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 4, (C, A, J, E, W, E) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 5, (C, A, J, E, W, G) Level 3: Acquisition Branch 6, (C, A, J, E, W, H) Level 2: Office of Grants Services, (C,A,J,E,Y) Level 3: Infectious Diseases Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, B) Level 3: Chronic Diseases and Birth Defects Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, C) Level 3: OD, Environmental, Occupational Health, and Injury Prevention Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, D) Level 3: Global Health (PEPFAR) Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, E) Level 3: Global Health Security Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, G) Level 3: Risk and Performance Management Services Branch, (C, A, J, E, Y, H) Approved 6/20/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts NCSTLTPHIW OHR OSSAM OCIO VIEW ALL About CDC OSSAM SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center SEARCH About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact VIEW ALL Injury and Violence Prevention CDC's Injury Center has protected the public from injury and violence for over 30 years.
Learn More Our focus Data, Statistics, and Reporting How we use data to understand when and why violence and injuries occur and how to prevent them.
Budget and Funding Budget and funding data, including information about state funding for priority areas.
Priorities How and why we prioritize these urgent, related, and preventable public health challenges.
Our organization About the CDC Injury Center CDC's Injury Center works to protect Americans from injury and violence.
Learn More Leadership Bios Learn about Injury Center leaders and experts.
Recent Press Releases Read about the Injury Center news and announcements from the last year.
Injury Center Organization View the Injury Center organizational structure.
Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All Data Dashboards, Visualizations, and Query Systems For Everyone AUG.
5, 2025 PURPOSE The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) provides vital statistics and selected survey data in dashboards, visualizations, and query systems.
These resources display statistics in formats that are easy to access and understand.
Find these interactive resources through the links on this page.
Interactive resources CDC WONDER WONDER online databases use a rich, ad-hoc query system for analysis of public health data.
WONDER features birth and death data.
Reports and other queries also are available.
Interactive Rapid Surveys System Estimates The Rapid Surveys System collects timely, relevant data on topic of public health importance.
National Center for Health Statistics Data Query System The NCHS Data Query System has thousands of estimates on more than 180 health topics in one easy-to-use tool.
Data are drawn from multiple NCHS surveys and data systems.
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Interactive Data Visualizations Visualizations feature estimates from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 1999–2000 through 2017–2018.
National Health Care Surveys Dashboards Dashboards feature data collected from healthcare providers and facilities about topics such as drug use, emergency department diagnoses, and facility characteristics.
National Health Interview Survey Interactive Data Query Systems The interactive data query systems provide health statistics based on data from the National Health Interview Survey.
National Vital Statistics System Data Visualization Gallery This gallery provides access to death, birth, and provisional vital statistics data dashboards.
NCHS COVID-19 Data Dashboards featuring pandemic-related data from NCHS surveys, vital statistics system, Research and Development Survey, and a partnership with the U.S.
Census Bureau.
Stats of the States The Stats of the States website offers individual state-level data for births, causes of death, and other health measures.
Data can be viewed in tables and maps.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Folic Acid EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Toolkits  Toolkit Community Resources From Heritage to Health Toolkit VIEW ALL View All For Everyone MAY 20, 2025 ESPAÑOL Folic Acid Safety, Interactions, and Health Outcomes KEY POINTS All women capable of becoming pregnant should get 400 micrograms of folic acid daily to help prevent neural tube defects.
Many studies have found folic acid to be safe and effective at recommended amounts.
Although unmetabolized folic acid may be in the bloodstream, no confirmed health risks have been found.
Getting the recommended amount of folic acid does not delay detection of vitamin B12 deficiency.
Overview CDC recommends all women capable of becoming pregnant get 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid daily.
Getting 400 mcg of folic acid each day helps prevent some serious birth defects called neural tube defects (NTDs).
Folic acid is safe and effective at recommended amounts Groups of experts worldwide regularly review all available research on folic acid.
Each group has consistently concluded that folic acid is safe and effective at the recommended amounts.
Taking 400 mcg of folic acid per day has not been shown to cause harm.
The well-established effectiveness of folic acid in preventing NTDs has been shown through randomized controlled trials and food fortification programs.12345 The US Preventive Health Task Force consistently supported recommendations for 400–800 mcg of folic acid as a Grade A recommendation.
This means it is a strong recommendation based on consistent findings.
Additional information continues to be assessed as it becomes available.
No health risks identified from unmetabolized folic acid Folic acid not used by the body is called "unmetabolized folic acid." Folic acid is absorbed by the intestines into the bloodstream and then converted to other forms of folate by the liver.
The liver is capable of processing only a certain amount of folic acid at one time.
Unused folic acid in the blood goes to the kidneys and leaves the body in urine.
Since the beginning of mandatory folic acid fortification, most people have had some unmetabolized folic acid circulating in their blood.6 Although some people have been concerned about unmetabolized folic acid in the blood, no confirmed health risks have been found.789 Folic acid doesn't delay identification of vitamin B12 deficiency Early studies suggested that folic acid supplementation could mask the anemia of vitamin B12 deficiency and delay diagnosis.
However, current laboratory tests can measure a person's vitamin B12 status.
This means that vitamin B12 deficiency can be readily detected and diagnosed.
A recent study looked at anemia among people with vitamin B12 deficiency before and after folic acid fortification.
This study found that folic acid fortification did not make it more likely for people to have undetected vitamin B12 deficiency.10 When taking supplements, more is not better.
If you can become pregnant, you need 400 mcg of folic acid daily.
You can get this from vitamins or fortified foods.
This is in addition to eating foods rich in folate.
However, your doctor may ask you to take more for certain reasons.
Folic acid's role in supporting health Folic acid and hypertension Hypertension, or abnormally high blood pressure, increases the risk for having a stroke.
A large study in China found that adults with hypertension who took 800 mcg of folic acid daily lowered the occurrence of stroke by 21%.1112 Folic acid and cardiovascular disease A study looked at the results of 30 randomized control trials involving more than 80,000 people.
This study suggested a 10% lower risk of stroke among those taking folic acid.
The study also found a 4% lower risk of overall cardiovascular (heart and blood vessel) disease among those taking folic acid supplements.13 Folic acid and arsenic exposure In many countries in the world, arsenic in the water results in chronic (constant) arsenic exposure.
A randomized control trial in Bangladesh found that taking 400 mcg of folic acid daily for 12 weeks reduced total blood arsenic levels by 13.6%.
The authors stated that taking folic acid to lower blood arsenic levels may help reduce the risk of illnesses that can result from arsenic poisoning.14 Folic acid and anemia Low blood folate concentrations can lead to anemia in both men and women.
There are different types of anemia, and they have a variety of causes.
The type of anemia that can be caused by very low blood folate concentrations is called megaloblastic anemia.15 Folic acid helps prevents this type of anemia.
What research shows about folic acid and cancer Anyone being treated for cancer should consult their doctors before taking any supplements.
Supplements (including those with folic acid) can interfere with cancer medications.
It is important to discuss all supplements with your healthcare provider.
Research on folic acid and cancer risk A recent analysis of data from 13 randomized control trials including about 50,000 individuals found no increase or decrease in cancer cases among those taking folic acid.
This includes cancers of the large intestine, prostate, lung, breast, and other sites.16 Folic acid and colorectal cancer A 2007 study investigated the effect of 1,000 mcg of folic acid daily on preventing colorectal adenomas (growths).
The study found that people who had recently had colorectal adenomas and were taking folic acid supplements had an increased risk of developing additional adenomas after 6 years of follow-up.17 However, many large studies and a meta-analysis (the results of many studies combined together into a single analysis) has not found a relationship between folic acid supplementation and developing additional colorectal adenomas.18192021 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention continually monitors the latest research on the effects of folic acid on colorectal cancer.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Folic acid is safe and effective at recommended amounts No health risks identified from unmetabolized folic acid Folic acid doesn't delay identification of vitamin B12 deficiency Folic acid's role in supporting health What research shows about folic acid and cancer RELATED PAGES About Sources and Intake Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VIEW ALL Folic Acid Improving Folic Acid Intake SOURCES PRINT SHARE Folic Acid Folic acid is a B vitamin.
If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before and during pregnancy, it can help prevent major birth defects of the baby’s brain and spine.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OCIO.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OCIO structure and objectives.
Organizational Structure Resources OCIO Org Chart CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER, (C,A,J,R) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,A,J,R,1) Level 1.1: Office of Business Operations, (C,A,J,R,1,6) Level 1.1: Technology Modernization Office, (C,A,J,R,1,8) Level 2: Customer Experience Office, (C,A,J,R,H) Level 3: Program Service Branch, (C,A,J,R,H,B) Level 3: Customer Assistance Branch, (C,A,J,R,H,C) Level 3: Global Activities Branch, (C,A,J,R,H,E) Level 2: Digital Services Office, (C,A,J,R,J) Level 3: Applications Services Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,B) Level 3: Identity and Access Management Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,D) Level 3: Infrastructure Services Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,E) Level 3: Data Transport Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,G) Level 3: Cloud Services Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,H) Level 3: Data Analytics and Visualization Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,J) Level 3: Business Automation Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,K) Level 3: Workplace Productivity Branch, (C,A,J,R,J,L) Level 2: Cybersecurity Program Office, (C,A,J,R,K) Level 3: Governance, Risk, and Compliance Branch, (C,A,J,R,K,B) Level 3: Advanced Threat Protection Branch, (C,A,J,R,K,D) Level 3: Engineering and Technologies Branch, (C,A,J,R,K,E) Level 3: Cyber Intelligence and Insider Threat Branch, (C,A,J,R,K,G) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OFR OSSAM SBI ATSDR VIEW ALL About CDC SBI SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact Board of Scientific Counselors VIEW ALL Related Topics: Injury and Violence Prevention | Injury and Violence Data View All Injury Center Board of Scientific Counselors For Everyone JULY 8, 2025 NOTICE Federal laws, regulations, and other applicable HHS policies and procedures are and will be consistently applied to all CDC FACA committees.
AT A GLANCE The Board of Scientific Counselors (BSC) is one of CDC’s federal advisory committees.
The CDC Injury Center BSC works with partners to study the causes and strategies needed to prevent violence and injuries.
Purpose The BSC advises the HHS Secretary, the CDC Director, and the Injury Center Director regarding surveillance, basic epidemiologic research, intervention research, and implementation, dissemination, and evaluation of promising and evidence-based strategies for the prevention of injury and violence.
The Board makes recommendations regarding policies, strategies, objectives, projects, and priorities, and reviews progress toward injury and violence prevention.
Membership The Board consists of up to 18 members, including the two co-chairs.
The HHS Secretary or his/her designee selects the members who are experts in injury and violence prevention.
Members include, but are not limited to, epidemiologists, statisticians, trauma surgeons, rehabilitation medical specialists, behavioral scientists, health economists, program evaluation specialists, political science, law, criminology, and specialists in various aspects of injury management.
The BSC also consists of 16 nonvoting ex officio members from related federal agencies, as well as others the Secretary deems necessary to carry out the functions of the Board.
Related links Charter ON THIS PAGE Purpose Membership Related links RELATED PAGES Board of Scientific Counselors Meetings CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact VIEW ALL Injury Center Board of Scientific Counselors Meetings SOURCES PRINT SHARE Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact Board of Scientific Counselors VIEW ALL Related Topics: Injury and Violence Prevention | Injury and Violence Data View All For Everyone MAY 15, 2025 Recent Press Releases AT A GLANCE Read press releases from the last year to learn about the CDC Injury Center's work, funding, and impact.
To see older press releases, visit the CDC Newsroom.
Latest releases and announcements 2025 May WEDNESDAY MAY 14, 2025 Statement from CDC’s National Center for Injury Prevention and Control on Provisional 2024 Overdose Death Data February TUESDAY FEBRUARY 25, 2025 CDC Reports Nearly 24% Decline in U.S.
Drug Overdose Deaths 2024 October WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 2, 2024 Potential public health risk among individuals ordering counterfeit prescription medications from online pharmacies September TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 10, 2024 New CDC Report Shows Suicide Risk Tied to Local Economic and Social Conditions May TUESDAY MAY 14, 2024 Drowning Deaths Rise in the United States 2023 August THURSDAY AUGUST 31, 2023 CDC Awards $279M to 49 States, the District of Columbia, and 40 Local Health Departments to Help Prevent Drug Overdoses THURSDAY AUGUST 10, 2023 Provisional Suicide Deaths in the United States, 2022 March WEDNESDAY MARCH 29, 2023 Increased Use of Telehealth Services and Medications for Opioid Use Disorder During the COVID-19 Pandemic Associated with Reduced Risk for Fatal Overdose WEDNESDAY MARCH 8, 2023 New Funding Opportunities for States, Cities, and Territories to Strengthen Overdose Surveillance and Prevention Efforts KEEP READING: Media RELATED PAGES About the CDC Injury Center Prevention Resources Priorities Leadership Bios VIEW ALL Injury Center Prevention Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All Programs and Services For Everyone SEPT.
17, 2024 PURPOSE National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) offers a variety of programs, services, and resources.
They can support health research, data analysis, and evidence-based policy.
Use them to connect with our data and analysis, get support for your health research, and make decisions based on data.
Background In addition to collecting, analyzing, and sharing health data, the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) supports others who do similar work.
Our programs, services, and resources connect people with our data and analysis, inform health research, and help ensure that health programs and policies are evidence-based.
The quickest way to access NCHS data by topic Find statistics on a range of health topics.
All data featured are final and official.
FastStats Classification of Diseases, Functioning, and Disability The International Classification of Diseases (ICD) is a standardized system used to code causes of death data from death certificates.
The World Health Organization developed ICD and designated NCHS to coordinate the use, interpretation, and revision of ICD in the United States.
KEEP READING Classification of Diseases, Functioning, and Disability Collaborating Center for Questionnaire Design and Evaluation Research The Collaborating Center for Questionnaire Design and Evaluation Research (CCQDER) evaluates questions for use in surveys and other data collections.
CCQDER uses cognitive interviewing and other methods to develop and evaluate questions.
CCQDER also conducts research to improve question evaluation methods and develops resources to improve data collection and analysis.
KEEP READING Collaborating Center for Questionnaire Design and Evaluation Research Collaborating Office of Medical Examiners and Coroners The Collaborating Office for Medical Examiners and Coroners (COMEC) brings together resources from across CDC to support the work of the medical examiner and coroner community.
The COMEC website is updated frequently as CDC programs and other sources develop new materials.
KEEP READING Collaborating Office for Medical Examiners and Coroners Data Linkage Program The NCHS Data Linkage Program combines two or more datasets that have some related variables to create a new dataset.
Each new linked dataset maximizes the value of the original data.
Researchers can analyze the new linked dataset to understand the relationships between different variables using data collected separately.
Often, linked data can better answer complex questions about American health than individual data sources can.
This is particularly helpful for developing evidence-based policies to improve health.
KEEP READING About NCHS Data Linkage Growth charts NCHS has worked with other CDC experts to develop clinical growth charts based on National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data.
These charts are a tool that health professionals can use to determine if a child's growth aligns with usual growth patterns for children in the United States.
The growth charts consist of a series of percentile curves that illustrate the distribution of selected body measurements in U.S.
Pediatricians, nurses, and parents have used our growth charts to track the growth of infants, children, and adolescents in the United States since 1977.
SEE ALSO Growth Charts Health, United States NCHS regularly produces the Health, United States report on behalf of the secretary of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
This report to the president and Congress presents trends in health statistics used by policymakers, public health professionals, and the public.
In addition to compiling key findings from NCHS surveys and data collections and other CDC programs, Health, United States uses data from other federal agencies, as well as private and global sources.
KEEP READING Health, United States Healthy People The Healthy People initiative guides national health promotion and disease prevention efforts to improve the health of the nation.
Healthy People identifies science-based objectives with targets to monitor progress and motivate and focus action.
HHS has released new Healthy People objectives every decade since 1980.
NCHS provides data-related support to HHS for developing and tracking progress toward Healthy People objectives.
NCHS also has developed a tool to help expert workgroups set Healthy People objective targets.
KEEP READING Healthy People National Death Index The National Death Index (NDI) is a resource to help researchers find out if participants in their studies have died.
NDI also can help researchers learn selected details from thier study participants' death certificates.
NDI provides the public health and medical research community a single source for obtaining selected mortality data for approved uses.
NDI can be used only for approved research purposes.
NDI users pay a fee based on their data needs and project size.
KEEP READING The National Death Index Publications and Information Products NCHS data and analyses are released in a variety of formats, including scientific reports.
Our reports feature health estimates, trend data, and other useful public health information.
People and groups use this information to make evidence-based decisions, create health-focused policies, allocate resources, identify needs-based programs, and more.
KEEP READING Publications and Information Products from the National Center for Health Statistics Research and Development Survey The Research and Development Survey (RANDS) is an ongoing survey series.
RANDS uses private companies' panel surveys to perform methodological research.
Methodological research is the study of how research and evaluation are carried out to ensure this work is effective.
RANDS also supplements the work of NCHS's Collaborating Center for Questionnaire Design and Evaluation Research.
KEEP READING NCHS Research and Development Survey Research Data Center NCHS operates the Research Data Center (RDC) to allow researchers access to sensitive data that cannot be shared publicly.
The RDC protects the confidentiality of survey participants, study subjects, and others who entrust NCHS with sensitive data, while also providing access to these restricted-use data for approved statistical purposes.
Researchers must submit an application outlining the need for access to restricted-use data.
The fee for using RDC data is based on the how many data files researchers are approved to access.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Folic Acid EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos About Improving Folic Acid Intake MTHFR Gene Variant and Folic Acid Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects VER TODO Proveedores de atención médica Clinical Overview Resources VER TODO Salud pública Social Media Toolkits  Toolkit Community Resources Kit de herramientas de From Heritage to Health VER TODO Ver todo 23 DE OCTUBRE DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Seguridad, interacciones y efectos en la salud del ácido fólico PUNTOS CLAVE • Todas las personas que puedan quedar embarazadas deben tomar 400 microgramos de ácido fólico diariamente para ayudar a prevenir los defectos del tubo neural.
Información general Los CDC recomiendan que todas las personas que puedan quedar embarazadas tomen 400 microgramos (mcg) de ácido fólico diariamente.
Tomar 400 mcg de ácido fólico todos los días ayuda a prevenir algunos defectos de nacimiento graves conocidos como defectos del tubo neural (NTD, por sus siglas en inglés).
El ácido fólico es seguro y eficaz en las cantidades recomendadas Grupos de expertos en todo el mundo revisan con regularidad todas las investigaciones disponibles sobre el ácido fólico.
Cada grupo ha concluido de manera constante que el ácido fólico es seguro y eficaz en las cantidades recomendadas.
No se ha demostrado que tomar 400 mcg de ácido fólico al día cause daño.
La eficacia bien establecida del ácido fólico para prevenir los defectos del tubo neural ha sido demostrada a través de ensayos controlados aleatorizados y programas de enriquecimiento de alimentos.
12345El Grupo de Trabajo de Salud Preventiva de los EE.
ha sido constante en apoyar las recomendaciones de 400 a 800 mcg de ácido fólico como una recomendación de grado A .
Esto significa que es una recomendación firme basada en hallazgos uniformes.
Se sigue evaluando información adicional a medida que esté disponible.
No se han identificado riesgos para la salud del ácido fólico no metabolizado El ácido fólico que el cuerpo no utiliza se conoce como "ácido fólico no metabolizado".
El ácido fólico se absorbe por los intestinos al torrente sanguíneo, y luego el hígado lo convierte en otras formas de folato.
El hígado es capaz de procesar solo cierta cantidad de ácido fólico a la vez.
El ácido fólico no utilizado en la sangre pasa a los riñones y sale del cuerpo en la orina.
Desde que comenzó el enriquecimiento obligatorio de alimentos con ácido fólico, la mayoría de las personas tienen algo de ácido fólico no metabolizado circulando en la sangre.
6Aunque algunas personas se preocupan por el ácido fólico no metabolizado en la sangre, no se han encontrado riesgos para la salud confirmados.
789 El ácido fólico no retrasa la identificación de la deficiencia de vitamina B12 Los primeros estudios indicaban que tomar suplementos de ácido fólico podría ocultar la anemia por deficiencia de vitamina B12 y retrasar el diagnóstico.
Sin embargo, las pruebas de laboratorio actuales pueden medir los niveles de vitamina B12 de una persona.
Esto significa que la deficiencia de vitamina B12 se puede detectar y diagnosticar fácilmente.
Un estudio reciente analizó la anemia entre personas con deficiencia de vitamina B12 antes y después del enriquecimiento de alimentos con ácido fólico.
Este estudio concluyó que este enriquecimiento con ácido fólico no aumentó las posibilidades de que no se detectara la deficiencia de vitamina B12 en las personas.
10 Al momento de tomar suplementos, tomar más no es necesariamente mejor.
Si usted puede quedar embarazada, necesita 400 mcg de ácido fólico diariamente.
Esta cantidad la puede obtener de vitaminas o alimentos enriquecidos.
Esto es además de comer alimentos ricos en folato.
Sin embargo, su médico podría pedirle que tome más por ciertas razones.
El rol del ácido fólico como refuerzo de la salud El ácido fólico y la hipertensión La hipertensión, o presión arterial anormalmente alta, aumenta el riesgo de tener un accidente cerebrovascular.
En un estudio amplio realizado en China se encontró que los adultos con hipertensión que tomaron 800 mcg de ácido fólico diariamente disminuyeron la incidencia de accidentes cerebrovasculares en un 21 %.
1112 El ácido fólico y la enfermedad cardiovascular Un estudio analizó los resultados de 30 ensayos controlados aleatorizados que incluían a más de 80 000 personas.
Este estudio indicó que el riesgo de accidentes cerebrovasculares fue un 10 % más bajo entre las personas que tomaron ácido fólico.
En el estudio también se halló que el riesgo de enfermedad cardiovascular (del corazón y los vasos sanguíneos) en general fue un 4 % más bajo entre las personas que tomaron suplementos de ácido fólico.
13 El ácido fólico y la exposición al arsénico En muchos países, el arsénico en el agua causa exposición crónica (continua) al arsénico.
En un ensayo controlado aleatorizado en Bangladesh se encontró que tomar 400 mcg de ácido fólico diariamente durante 12 semanas redujo los niveles totales de arsénico en la sangre en un 13.6 %.
Los autores del estudio indicaron que tomar ácido fólico para disminuir los niveles de arsénico en la sangre podría ayudar a reducir el riesgo de enfermedades que pueden ser causadas por la intoxicación con arsénico.
14 El ácido fólico y la anemia Las concentraciones bajas de folato en la sangre pueden causar anemia tanto en los hombres como en las mujeres.
Existen distintos tipos de anemia, y tienen diversas causas.
El tipo de anemia que puede ser causada por concentraciones muy bajas de folato en la sangre se conoce como anemia megaloblástica.
15 El ácido fólico ayuda a prevenir este tipo de anemia.
Lo que muestran las investigaciones sobre el ácido fólico y el cáncer Toda persona que esté recibiendo tratamiento contra el cáncer debe consultar con sus médicos antes de tomar cualquier suplemento.
Los suplementos (incluidos los que contienen ácido fólico) pueden interferir con los medicamentos contra el cáncer.
Es importante hablar con su proveedor de atención médica sobre todos los suplementos.
Investigación sobre el ácido fólico y el riesgo de cáncer Un análisis reciente de datos tomados de 13 ensayos controlados aleatorizados que incluyeron alrededor de 50 000 personas no encontró ni aumento ni disminución en los casos de cáncer entre quienes tomaron ácido fólico.
Esto incluye cánceres de intestino grueso, próstata, pulmones, mama y otros.
16 El ácido fólico y el cáncer colorrectal Un estudio del 2007 investigó el efecto de tomar 1000 mcg de ácido fólico diariamente para prevenir los adenomas (crecimientos epiteliales) colorrectales.
El estudio encontró que las personas que habían tenido adenomas colorrectales recientemente y estaban tomando suplementos de ácido fólico tuvieron un riesgo mayor de presentar adenomas adicionales después de 6 años de seguimiento.
17 Sin embargo, muchos estudios amplios y un metanálisis (los resultados de muchos estudios combinados en un solo análisis) no ha encontrado relación entre los suplementos de ácido fólico y el desarrollo de adenomas colorrectales adicionales.
18192021 Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades monitorean continuamente las investigaciones más recientes sobre los efectos del ácido fólico en el cáncer colorrectal.
EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general El ácido fólico es seguro y eficaz en las cantidades recomendadas No se han identificado riesgos para la salud del ácido fólico no metabolizado El ácido fólico no retrasa la identificación de la deficiencia de vitamina B12 El rol del ácido fólico como refuerzo de la salud Lo que muestran las investigaciones sobre el ácido fólico y el cáncer FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Folic Acid Folic acid is a B vitamin.
If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before and during pregnancy, it can help prevent major birth defects of the baby’s brain and spine.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for ATSDR.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into ATSDR structure.
Organizational Structure Resources ATSDR Org Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY (J) Level 1: Office of the Administrator, (J,A) Level 2: Office of the Director, (J,A,A) Level 2.1: Office of Management and Analytics, (J,A,A,2) Level 2.1: Office of Policy, Partnerships, and Planning, (J,A,A,3) Level 2.1: Office of Communications, (J,A,A,7) Level 2.1: Office of Science, (J,A,A,9) Level 3: Office of The Associate Director, (J,A,A,Q) Level 4: Office of Innovation and Analytics, (J,A,A,Q,B) Level 4: Office of Community Health Hazard Assessment, (J,A,A,Q,C) Level 4: Office of Capacity Development and Applied Prevention Science, (J,A,A,Q,D) Approved 10/31/2019; Effective 01/09/2020 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OFR OSSAM OCIO SBI OBPA VIEW ALL About CDC OBPA SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact Board of Scientific Counselors VIEW ALL Related Topics: Injury and Violence Prevention | Injury and Violence Data View All Board of Scientific Counselors Meetings For Everyone SEPT.
15, 2025 NOTICE Federal laws, regulations, and other applicable HHS policies and procedures are and will be consistently applied to all CDC FACA committees.
AT A GLANCE The Board of Scientific Counselors (BSC) is one of CDC’s federal advisory committees.
Below are links to the CDC Injury Center BSC meeting minutes and related documents.
2024 meetings and documents September 24, 2024 Agenda - BSC Meeting September 24, 2024 Minutes - BSC Meeting September 24, 2024 Presentations BSC NCIPC Presentations September 23, 2024 June 6, 2024 Agenda - BSC Meeting June 6, 2024 Minutes – BSC Meeting June 5-6, 2024 Presentations Behavioral Health Coordinating Unit Declines in Violence Documented in the Violence Against Children and Youth Surveys New National Strategy for Suicide Prevention and Federal Action Plan Portfolio Review of the Division of Overdose Prevention: 2019-2023 Sexual Violence Research Priorities: Proposed 2024 Updates May 14, 2024 Minutes – BSC Secondary Review meeting May 14, 2024 January 11, 2024 Agenda – BSC Meeting January 11, 2024 Minutes – BSC Meeting January 11, 2024 Presentations Intimate Partner Violence Research Priorities: Proposed 2024 Updates 2023 meetings and documents June 8, 2023 Minutes - BSC Meeting June 8, 2023 (Closed Session) May 3-4, 2023 Agenda – BSC Meeting May 4, 2023 Minutes - BSC Meeting Open & Closed Sessions May 3-4, 2023 Presentations Improving the Quality and Reach of Extramural Research Notice of Funding Opportunities – BSC Extramural NOFOs Developing a Cascade of Care Framework and Surveillance Indicators to Measure Linkage and Retention to Care for Substance Use Disorder – LTC Indicators BSC Updated and Expanded CDC Guidance for the Identification and Response of Suicide Clusters – Response to Suicide Clusters Moving Science and Data to Violence Prevention Action – Moving Science and Data to Violence Prevention Action ON THIS PAGE 2024 meetings and documents 2023 meetings and documents RELATED PAGES Board of Scientific Counselors Impact About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios VIEW ALL Injury Center About the CDC Injury Center SOURCES PRINT SHARE Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact Board of Scientific Counselors VIEW ALL Related Topics: Injury and Violence Prevention | Injury and Violence Data View All For Everyone OCTOBER 11, 2024 Prevention Resources AT A GLANCE View the latest injury and violence prevention resources from the CDC Injury Center.
Learn about preventing suicide, overdose, drowning, older adult falls, and violence.
Funding opportunities Funding opportunities The CDC Injury Center offers grants to assist other health-related and research organizations that contribute to our mission through health information dissemination, prevention, and research.
Injury Center Notice of Funding Opportunities (NOFOs) Suicide prevention Suicide is a serious public health problem that can have long-lasting effects on individuals, families, and communities.
The good news is that suicide is preventable.
The CDC Injury Center uses data, research, and partnerships to identify and implement effective suicide prevention strategies to foster healthy and resilient communities across the United States.
The CDC Injury Center works to prevent suicide.
National Strategy for Suicide Prevention The 2024 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention is a bold new 10-year, comprehensive, whole-of-society approach to suicide prevention that provides concrete recommendations for addressing gaps in the suicide prevention field.
SEE ALSO: 2024 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention Comprehensive Suicide Prevention Program CDC's Comprehensive Suicide Prevention Program (CSP) funds 24 programs to implement and evaluate a comprehensive public health approach to suicide prevention.
Funding also supports near real-time collection of emergency department data for suicide attempts and suicidal ideation.
Overdose prevention Drug overdoses impact families, communities, workplaces, and the economy.
The CDC Injury Center works to prevent overdoses and substance use-related harms.
KEEP READING: What CDC is Doing View the DOSE and SUDORS data dashboards to see the most up-to-date data on overdoses.
For more overdose, injury, and violence data sources, visit Data Statistics, and Reporting.
About the Drug Overdose Surveillance and Epidemiology (DOSE) System CDC’s Drug Overdose Surveillance and Epidemiology system (DOSE) provides nonfatal overdose data.
15, 2024 SUDORS Dashboard: Fatal Drug Overdose Data View comprehensive data on unintentional and undetermined intent drug overdose deaths.
12, 2025 Xylazine Xylazine is a non-opioid sedative or tranquilizer that is increasingly being found in the US illegal drug supply and linked to overdose deaths KEEP READING: What You Should Know About Xylazine Stimulant overdose Stimulants include methamphetamine, cocaine, crack cocaine, and amphetamines, such as medications prescribed for the treatment of ADHD.
Stimulant-involved overdose deaths have risen in recent years.
View the Stimulant Guide below to find answers to emerging questions about stimulants in the context of the overdose epidemic in the United States.
It is important that community service providers and members of the public have access to information about stimulants.
This is about 500 more drowning deaths each year compared to 2019.
Drowning is preventable.
View the At-a-Glance document below to see how CDC uses data and research to prevent drowning and save lives.
Drowning injuries can cause brain damage and other serious outcomes.
Older adult fall prevention Falls are the leading cause of injury and injury death among Americans ages 65 and older (older adults).
Still Going Strong focuses on preventing injuries among older adults.
Older Adult Fall Prevention provides the latest falls data, effective fall prevention interventions, and fall prevention resources.
The Still Going Strong campaign provides empowering tips for older adults, caregivers, and healthcare professionals on preventing common injuries as we age, as well as a partner toolkit for public health practitioners with campaign assets.
Stopping Elderly Accidents, Deaths, and Injuries (STEADI) provides tools and resources for healthcare providers to reduce fall risk in their older patients, along with patient and caregiver resources.
Resources for action Prevention Resources for Action Explore strategies and approaches to help states and communities prevent violence and suicide.
10, 2024 Resources for Action can help states and communities use the best available evidence to prevent: Adverse childhood experiences Child abuse and neglect Community violence Intimate partner violence Sexual violence Suicide Youth violence VetoViolence CDC's VetoViolence website has interactive tools, trainings, and resources to help you and your community stop violence now and prevent it in the future.
Many people face violence every day, but preventing it is possible.
Adverse Childhood Experiences: ACEs Trainings and Resources Explore tools, trainings, and resources to help you prevent early adversity and create positive childhood experiences.
Each resource will give you insights and skills to ensure all children and families have safe, stable, and nurturing relationships and environments.
News and updates Stay up-to-date with the latest information by subscribing to Injury Center's newsletters: Go to the CDC subscription tool.
Search for the topic below that you're interested in and check "Subscribe".
Enter your email and click "Subscribe".
Topics: Core State Violence and Injury Prevention Program Drowning Prevention Drug Overdose News Injury Center Funding Announcements Injury Statistics Query & Reporting System Motor Vehicle Safety Older Adult Falls Suicide Prevention Traumatic Brain Injury Veto Violence Digest Violence Prevention ON THIS PAGE Funding opportunities Suicide prevention Overdose prevention Drowning prevention Older adult fall prevention Resources for action VetoViolence News and updates RELATED PAGES About the CDC Injury Center Recent Press Releases Priorities Leadership Bios VIEW ALL Injury Center Priorities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Health Statistics EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NCHS Surveys and Vitals Systems Budget and Funding Data and Analysis Tools Partnerships Pressroom Policies and Procedures Employment at NCHS Responses to Health Data Requests Webinars Email Updates VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Publications | Stats of the States | NCHS Blog View All Data Dashboards, Visualizations, and Query Systems For Everyone AUG.
5, 2025 PURPOSE The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) provides vital statistics and selected survey data in dashboards, visualizations, and query systems.
These resources display statistics in formats that are easy to access and understand.
Find these interactive resources through the links on this page.
Interactive resources CDC WONDER WONDER online databases use a rich, ad-hoc query system for analysis of public health data.
WONDER features birth and death data.
Reports and other queries also are available.
Interactive Rapid Surveys System Estimates The Rapid Surveys System collects timely, relevant data on topic of public health importance.
National Center for Health Statistics Data Query System The NCHS Data Query System has thousands of estimates on more than 180 health topics in one easy-to-use tool.
Data are drawn from multiple NCHS surveys and data systems.
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Interactive Data Visualizations Visualizations feature estimates from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 1999–2000 through 2017–2018.
National Health Care Surveys Dashboards Dashboards feature data collected from healthcare providers and facilities about topics such as drug use, emergency department diagnoses, and facility characteristics.
National Health Interview Survey Interactive Data Query Systems The interactive data query systems provide health statistics based on data from the National Health Interview Survey.
National Vital Statistics System Data Visualization Gallery This gallery provides access to death, birth, and provisional vital statistics data dashboards.
NCHS COVID-19 Data Dashboards featuring pandemic-related data from NCHS surveys, vital statistics system, Research and Development Survey, and a partnership with the U.S.
Census Bureau.
Stats of the States The Stats of the States website offers individual state-level data for births, causes of death, and other health measures.
Data can be viewed in tables and maps.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades Buscar Aviso sobre la política de confidencialidad del sitio web de los CDC Inglés (English) Imprimir Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) están comprometidos con mantener su privacidad y proteger su información personal cuando usted visite los sitios web de los CDC, use las aplicaciones móviles de los CDC o reciba información de salud pública de esta agencia.
Con respecto a la recolección, el uso y la divulgación de información personal identificable (PII, por sus siglas en inglés), los CDC cumplen con todas las leyes federales aplicables.
Nuestra política de privacidad es clara: Los CDC no recolectan ningún tipo de información personal identificable (PII) cuando usted visita alguno de nuestros canales de medios digitales, a menos que decida proporcionarnos esa información.
Cualquier PII que usted decida proporcionar está completamente protegida.
Es posible que la información que no sea PII, relacionada con su visita a nuestros sitios web, sea automáticamente recolectada y guardada de manera temporal.
En esta página Cómo contactar a la Oficina de Privacidad Retención de datos Alcance digital a través de tecnologías de geovallas Cómo se utiliza la información Interacción con niños en los canales de medios digitales de los CDC Seguridad Cómo compartir esta información Actualizaciones a esta política de privacidad A continuación, se describe la manera en que manejamos la información acerca de su visita a nuestro sitio web, y la de los usuarios que reciben información de los CDC a través de los canales de medios digitales de los CDC y otros canales digitales: Información recibida y retenida* Nuestra política sobre cookies* Política de privacidad sobre dispositivos móviles* Herramientas y sitios de terceros* Cómo contactar a la Oficina de Privacidad Si tiene alguna pregunta con respecto a la política de privacidad o si necesita información adicional, comuníquese con la Oficina de Privacidad de los CDC enviando un correo a privacy@cdc.gov o llamando al 770-488-8660.
Ir Arriba Retención de datos Ingresar información personal (nombre, dirección, número de teléfono, dirección de correo electrónico, etc.) es algo voluntario y no se requiere para acceder a la información en nuestro sitio web.
Sin embargo, si decide proporcionar a los CDC información personal identificable —por ejemplo, al completar un formulario, dejar un comentario, enviar un correo electrónico o completar una encuesta—, es posible que usemos esa información para responder a su mensaje o que nos ayude a enviarle la información o los servicios que solicitó.
Solo retenemos la información por el tiempo que sea necesario para responder a su pregunta o solicitud.
La información ingresada electrónicamente se mantiene y destruye según lo exige la Ley de Registros Federales y los calendarios de registros de la Administración Nacional de Archivos y Registros.
Está sujeta a la Ley de Privacidad si se mantiene en un sistema de registro de esta Ley.
Para obtener más información, consulte: Notificaciones del Sistema de Registros de HHS/CDC (SORN) * Debido a que las políticas de retención de datos varían de sistema a sistema, consulte la política del sistema correspondiente o su SORN para obtener información más detallada.
Ir Arriba Alcance digital a través de tecnologías de geovallas Es posible que los CDC trabajen por medio de terceros, como contratistas, para utilizar tecnologías de geovallas con el fin de llegar a personas con información de salud crucial en lugares y momentos específicos.
Estas tecnologías pueden ser particularmente útiles durante una emergencia de salud pública.
Las tecnologías de geovallas son servicios basados en la ubicación, en los que una aplicación (app) u otro programa de software utiliza el sistema de posicionamiento global (GPS) de un dispositivo móvil para crear y enviar un mensaje específico, una notificación de inserción o una publicidad móvil (p.
ej., en navegadores de la web o apps), cuando ese dispositivo ingresa o sale de una “geovalla” definida o poco después.
Una geovalla es un perímetro virtual alrededor de un área geográfica del mundo real, el cual podría incluir un aeropuerto o una frontera terrestre, una escuela, un centro comercial, un estadio u otra área geográfica.
Para recibir un mensaje de los CDC por medio de esta tecnología, deberá haber descargado ciertas apps y tener ya sea el uso compartido de ubicación activado en su dispositivo, aunque la app no se vea en la pantalla, o estar usando de manera activa esas apps mientras pase a través de un área que esté dentro de una geovalla.
Una geovalla no le hace seguimiento a su ubicación ni al número de su teléfono; solamente se utiliza para detectar dispositivos que podrían ingresar a un área geográfica específica en un momento dado, para que puedan recibir un mensaje patrocinado por los CDC.
Los mensajes pueden enviarse varias veces en el lapso de unos días después del cruce a través de un área de geovalla, aunque los CDC limitarán la cantidad de veces que una persona recibirá un mensaje.
Además, los CDC exigen que las personas siempre tengan la opción de cancelar la recepción de mensajes, incluido cualquier anuncio que sea enviado en tiempo real y poco después de ello.
Es posible que los CDC obtengan datos agregados de parte de terceros, como contratistas, acerca de la cantidad de veces que se muestra un mensaje, la cantidad de personas que ve el mensaje, y la cantidad de veces que se comparte y que recibe “me gusta” y clics.
Los CDC también podrían recibir datos agregados acerca de los grupos demográficos básicos alcanzados por los mensajes, como según la distribución de edades y los rangos de género.
Los CDC no reciben ningún tipo de información personal identificable (PII) sobre las personas alcanzadas a través de los mensajes de salud geodirigidos.
Ir Arriba Cómo se utiliza la información Si decide proporcionarnos información,* es posible que la utilicemos para contactarlo, responder su mensaje o darle la información o los servicios que solicitó.
Con el objeto de darle un mejor servicio, podríamos analizar múltiples fuentes de datos que nos haya proporcionado (por ejemplo, chequear si usted contactó previamente a los CDC acerca del mismo tema, para no enviarle respuestas repetidas).
También es posible que utilicemos mensajes o comentarios recolectados a través de sitios de CDC.gov, apps o perfiles de redes sociales oficiales para nuestros propios propósitos, tales como fundamentar decisiones sobre políticas o la defensa pública de causas.
Podríamos utilizar datos que nos proporcione y datos generados automáticamente para análisis estadísticos con el fin de evaluar, por ejemplo, qué información les interesa a los usuarios, especificaciones de diseño técnico y el desempeño del sistema.
Esto nos permite hacerle mejoras generales a nuestro sitio, así como ofrecer contenido personalizado a los suscriptores que reciben correos electrónicos (p.
ej., un mensaje de seguimiento a los interesados en un tema específico con base en la información que proporcionaron o los datos generados automáticamente).
Ir Arriba Interacción con niños en los canales de medios digitales de los CDC Creemos en la importancia de proteger la privacidad de los niños en línea.
Por lo tanto, tomaremos todos los pasos razonables para proteger la privacidad y la seguridad de cualquier niño o niña de quien se recolecte información conforme lo exige la Ley de Protección de la Privacidad Infantil en Internet (COPPA) .* Los padres o el tutor legal de un niño o una niña deben dar su consentimiento antes de que los CDC recolecten, utilicen o compartan información de un niño o una niña menor de 13 años.
Cuando un sitio web de los CDC necesite recolectar información acerca de un niño o una niña menor de 13 años, la página específica que recolecte la información proveerá la información y las instrucciones requeridas por COPPA.
La página web especificará exactamente para qué se utilizará la información, quién la verá y por cuánto tiempo se conservará.
La información personal sobre niños menores de 13 años podría necesitarse para responder a la comunicación de ese niño o esa niña con nosotros.
La información personal sobre su niño o niña se destruirá inmediatamente después de que se logre el objetivo buscado.
En raras ocasiones, podría determinarse que una comunicación de un niño o una niña menor de 13 años debería conservarse con propósitos históricos.
Si esto llegara a ocurrir, los CDC obtendrán el consentimiento necesario del padre o madre del niño o la niña.
Por último, nosotros proporcionamos muchas herramientas y servicios en línea en apoyo a la misión de los CDC.
Es posible que, sin quererlo, un niño o una niña menor de 13 años proporcione información personal a uno de estos servicios.
Si pasara esto, la información acerca del niño o la niña se borraría de inmediato apenas se descubriera.
Nuestros canales de medios digitales no tienen el objetivo de solicitar información de ningún tipo de niños o niñas menores de 13 años.
Si usted cree que hemos recibido información de un niño o una niña menor de 13 años o acerca de él o ella, contacte a la Oficina de Privacidad de los CDC (obtenga la información de contacto* aquí).
Ir Arriba Seguridad Todo lo que ofrecen los medios digitales de los CDC, incluido el sitio CDC.gov, es mantenido por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y está protegido por varias disposiciones del Título 18 del Código de los EE.
Las violaciones al Título 18 están sujetas a procesos penales en tribunales federales.
En los CDC, se toman precauciones razonables para proteger nuestras plataformas digitales, incluso la información recolectada automáticamente o ingresada de manera voluntaria en CDC.gov, o en una página oficial de los CDC en el sitio de un tercero.
Por ejemplo, nosotros restringimos el acceso a información personal identificable a los empleados, contratistas y proveedores de servicios que requieren acceso a este tipo de información con el fin de realizar sus tareas oficiales, y ejercemos controles para limitar los datos que ellos pueden ver con base en las necesidades específicas de su cargo.
El acceso a las cuentas oficiales de los CDC en sitios de terceros es limitado a las personas que administran esas cuentas, y todas las cuentas oficiales de los CDC están identificadas claramente.
Además, se utilizan prácticas de uso común y controles tecnológicos para proteger la información en nuestra posesión o control, junto con la del propio sitio CDC.gov.
Estos controles y prácticas incluyen, entre otros: encriptar la transferencia de información personal a través de Internet por medio de protocolos de sockets seguros, como Transport Layer Security (TLS), Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) etc., utilizando cortafuegos (firewalls) de alta potencia y sistemas de detección de intrusiones (IDS) para salvaguardar información personal; y mantener controles y procedimientos técnicos estrictos para garantizar la integridad de todos los datos en CDC.gov.
Nosotros revisamos periódicamente nuestros procesos y sistemas para verificar el seguimiento de las mejores prácticas de la industria y para garantizar el más alto nivel de seguridad para todas las plataformas digitales de los CDC.
Ir Arriba Cómo compartir esta información La información que usted decida compartir con los CDC* (directamente y a través de sitios de terceros) podría ser tratada como información pública.
Nosotros podríamos, por ejemplo, publicar recopilaciones de mensajes o comentarios recolectados por medio de CDC.gov o de páginas de redes sociales oficiales y proporcionárselas a líderes nacionales, miembros de los medios de comunicación u otras personas por fuera del Gobierno federal.
Sin embargo, ejercemos discreción para limitar tales divulgaciones a fin de proteger su privacidad (por ejemplo, por lo general no publicamos apellidos de quienes hacen comentarios).
Los CDC tienen un proveedor de análisis externo (para obtener información sobre el proveedor actual, consulte la lista actual de las herramientas o páginas de terceros)* para recolectar y resumir esta información junto con las cookies.
El proveedor de análisis externo no recibe información personal identificable a través de estas cookies y tiene prohibido combinar, emparejar, o hacer referencia cruzada de la información de CDC.gov con cualquier otra información.
Dentro de los CDC, restringimos el acceso a información personal identificable a solo aquellos empleados, contratistas o proveedores de servicios que requieren acceso a este tipo de información con el fin de realizar sus tareas oficiales, y ejercemos controles para limitar los datos que ellos pueden ver con base en las necesidades específicas de su cargo.
Si usted decide compartir información con nosotros, nosotros podríamos, en algunos casos, compartir esa información (o información automáticamente generada) con otras agencias del Gobierno en respuesta a solicitudes legales para hacer cumplir la ley o para proteger al sitio CDC.gov contra amenazas a la seguridad.
No utilizamos ni compartimos su información para propósitos comerciales, excepto como se describió anteriormente; no intercambiamos, ni divulgamos esta información de ninguna otra manera.
Ir Arriba Actualizaciones a esta política de privacidad Revisaremos o actualizaremos esta política de manera periódica.
Si hacemos cambios significativos a la forma en que manejamos la información personal, publicaremos los cambios a la política en nuestro sitio y cambiaremos la fecha en la parte inferior de la página.
Proporcionaremos aviso adicional previo (p.
ej., un descargo de responsabilidad en nuestro sitio web o un correo electrónico a los suscriptores) si se están haciendo cambios significativos.
Ir Arriba Nota * Los enlaces a sitios web pueden llevar a páginas en inglés o español.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 Office of Budget Policy and Appropriations (OBPA) AT A GLANCE Explore OBPA resources for comprehensive insight into OBPA mission.
RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OFR OSSAM OCIO SBI ATSDR VIEW ALL About CDC About the New CDC.gov SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Violence Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Violence Prevention VIEW ALL Public Health Prevention Resources for Action Cardiff Model Funded Research, Programs, and Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Prevention Resources for Action JULY 21, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW CDC developed Prevention Resources for Action, formerly known as technical packages, to help states and communities take advantage of the best available evidence to prevent violence.
The titles of these documents changed in July 2023 to align with other prevention resources being developed by CDC’s Injury Center.
Purpose A Prevention Resource for Action is a select group of strategies based on the best available evidence to prevent or reduce public health problems like violence.
They can help improve the health and well-being of communities.
A Prevention Resource for Action has three parts.
Strategy: The strategy lays out the direction or actions to achieve the goal of preventing violence.
Approach: The approach includes the specific ways to advance the strategy.
This can be accomplished through programs, policies, and practices.
Evidence: The evidence for each of the approaches in preventing violence or its associated risk factors is included as the third component.
CDC's former Director Dr.
Tom Frieden named Prevention Resources for Action, formerly known as technical packages, as one of the six key components for effective public health program implementation.
He wrote in the American Journal of Public Health that: The most effective public health programs are based on an evidence-based technical package...A technical package of proven interventions sharpens and focuses what otherwise might be vague commitments to "action" by committing to implementation of specific interventions known to be effective.
It also avoids a scattershot approach of using a large number of interventions, many of which have only a small impact.
Each Prevention Resource for Action is intended as a resource to guide and inform prevention decision-making in states and communities.
Usage guidance A group of CDC expert scientists reviewed the prevention literature and considered the best possible evidence available.
They selected a group of strategies to prevent violence from happening in the first place or to lessen harms and prevent future risk.
The group identified approaches that states and communities could implement to advance the strategies and also described how various sectors could support implementation.
The resources were then reviewed by grantees/funded partners, federal partners, and other groups working to prevent violence.
The strategies and approaches in the Prevention Resources for Action are intended to impact individual behaviors as well as the relationship, family, school, community, and societal factors that influence risk and protective factors for violence.
They are intended to work together and to be used in combination in a multi-level, multi-sector effort to prevent violence.
Sectors vital to the implementation of these packages include education, government, social services, healthcare services, business, justice, housing, foundations, and faith-based organizations.
Prevention Resources for Action Expand All Adverse Childhood Experiences Prevention Resource for Action Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Resource for Action Community Violence Prevention Resource for Action Intimate Partner Violence Prevention Resource for Action Sexual Violence Prevention Resource for Action Suicide Prevention Resource for Action Implementation Implementation is the process of taking action to put a plan into practice in order to bring about the desired result.
Violence Prevention in Practice focuses on taking action to select and implement the strategies in the Division of Violence Prevention's Prevention Resources for Action.
The resource is designed to support state and local health agencies and other stakeholders who have a role in planning, implementing, and evaluating violence prevention efforts.
Violence Prevention in Practice is organized into sections that are each focused on one phase of implementing a violence prevention plan: Planning— assessing needs, resources, and capacity, and creating a comprehensive plan.
Partnerships— identifying and engaging stakeholders.
Policy Efforts— identifying potential roles for public health in the policy process.
Strategies and Approaches— choosing strategies and approaches that are likely to prevent violence.
Adaptation— changing approaches to fit needs while still producing intended outcomes.
Implementation— putting your plan into action.
Evaluation— tracking and measuring outcomes.
Each section also has corresponding tools, stories, tip sheets, and resources, related to that phase of implementation.
Comprehensive violence prevention means addressing multiple factors that influence violence and engaging multiple sectors, such as public health, government, and business.
A comprehensive violence prevention plan includes a mix of strategies and approaches that address several risk and protective factors and how these factors affect people, communities, and society.
In combination, the strategies in the Prevention Resources for Action are intended to change norms, environments, organizations, and behaviors in ways that prevent violence or modify the factors that increase or buffer against the risk for violence.
ON THIS PAGE Purpose Usage guidance Prevention Resources for Action Implementation SOURCES PRINT SHARE Violence Prevention Violence is an urgent public health problem.
CDC is committed to preventing violence so that everyone can be safe and healthy.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
STEADI - Older Adult Fall Prevention SEARCH STEADI Patient & Caregiver Resources Success Stories VIEW ALL STEADI Overview of STEADI and video resources for older adults, health care providers, and caregivers.
Learn More Patient & Caregiver Resources This page is a collection of patient and caregiver resources relating to older adult falls.
STAND STEADI Videos This video series highlights how STEADI prevents falls among older adults.
Success Stories Read success stories of how STEADI is helping older adults age without injury.
For Professionals Training STEADI trainings and resources help healthcare providers in implementing fall prevention strategies Clinical Resources View STEADI resources to help healthcare providers to reduce fall risk among older patients.
Inpatient Care Outpatient Care Pharmacy Care (STEADI-Rx) Key Resources Algorithm for Fall Risk Screening, Assessment, and Intervention This tool walks healthcare providers through assessing a patient’s fall risk, educating patients, se...
Download CDC STEADI: Evaluation Guide for Older Adult Clinical Fall Prevention Programs A resource that describes key steps for measuring and reporting on the success of a STEADI-based cli...
Download Brochure | Stay Independent: Learn More About Fall Prevention Offers a checklist providers and patients can use to check for risk of falling.
Download Brochure | Family Caregivers: Protect Your Loved Ones from Falling Brochure for family caregivers with steps to help prevent older adult falls.
Download STEADI - Older Adult Fall Prevention The STEADI initiative was created for healthcare providers who treat older adults who are at risk of falling, or who may have fallen in the past.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo English The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
CENTROS PARA EL CONTROL Y LA PREVENCIÓN DE ENFERMEDADES TEMAS DE SALUD ACERCA DE LOS CDC BUSCAR El cáncer de mama Informarse más Las enfermedades respiratorias Informarse más Influenza aviar H5: situación actual Informarse más El cáncer de mama Las enfermedades respiratorias Influenza aviar H5: situación actual Pausar el carrusel CENTROS PARA EL CONTROL Y LA PREVENCIÓN DE ENFERMEDADES TEMAS DE SALUD ACERCA DE LOS CDC BUSCAR Acerca de los CDC Los CDC son la organización líder de servicio de la nación que, basada en la ciencia e impulsada por los datos, protege la salud del público.
Los CDC trabajan las 24 horas del día los 7 días de la semana para proteger a los Estados Unidos de amenazas a la salud y seguridad, tanto en el extranjero como en los Estados Unidos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Suicide Prevention EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Risk and Protective Factors Preventing Suicide Health Disparities in Suicide Suicide Facts CSP: Program Profiles Suicide Prevention Resources Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook Funded Programs VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Resources Suicide Prevention Tools VIEW ALL View All JUNE 4, 2024 Suicide Prevention Resource for Action AT A GLANCE CDC’s Suicide Prevention Resource for Action (Prevention Resource) details the strategies with the best available evidence to reduce suicide.
The Prevention Resource can help states and communities prioritize suicide prevention activities most likely to have an impact.
The programs, practices, and policies in the Prevention Resource can be tailored to the needs of populations and communities.
Seven Strategies for Suicide Prevention Audio Description Low Resolution Video Preventing suicide is a priority Suicide Prevention Resource for Action Download the Prevention Resource Download the Summary The Prevention Resource has three components states and communities can use to inform their suicide prevention efforts.
Strategies are the actions to achieve the goal of preventing suicide.
Approaches are the specific ways to advance each strategy.
Policies, programs, and practices included have evidence of impact on suicide, suicide attempts, or risk and protective factors.
Suicide is preventable Suicide is a serious public health problem that can have lasting harmful effects on individuals, families, and communities.
It contributes to premature death, long-term disability, lost productivity, and significant healthcare costs.
There are many factors that contribute to suicide.
The goal of suicide prevention is to reduce factors that increase risk and increase factors that promote resilience.
Suicide deaths reflect only a portion of the problem.
Every year, millions of Americans seriously think about suicide, plan, or attempt suicide.
Suicide and suicide attempts can contribute to lasting impacts on individuals, families, and communities.
The good news is that suicide is preventable.
CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control's vision of "no lives lost to suicide" relies on implementing a comprehensive public health approach to prevention.
This approach: Uses data to drive decision-making Implements and evaluates multiple prevention strategies that enhance resilience and improve well-being based on the best available evidence Works to prevent the risk of suicide in the first place and lessen the immediate and long-term harms of suicidal behavior by helping those in times of crisis get the services and support they need Convenes and connects multi-sectoral partnerships through strong leadership practices Strategies for action The Suicide Prevention Resource for Action represents a select group of strategies based on the best available evidence to help communities and states focus on activities with the greatest potential to prevent suicide.
These strategies focus on preventing the risk of suicide before it occurs and reducing the immediate and long-term harms of suicidal behavior for individuals, families, communities, and society.
See pages 100-106 of the Suicide Prevention Resource for Action for full list of approaches, policies, programs, and practices related to these strategies.
Strategy Approach 1.
Strengthen economic supports - Improve household financial security - Stabilize housing Examples: Unemployment insurance Social Security early retirement benefits Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Housing First Veterans Affairs Programs for Veterans Without Homes 2.
Create protective environments - Reduce access to lethal means among persons at risk of suicide - Create healthy organizational policies and culture - Reduce substance use through community-based policies and practices Examples: Counseling on Access to Lethal Means United States Air Force Suicide Prevention Program Gun Shop Project Creating Suicide Safety in Schools 3.
Improve access and delivery of suicide care - Cover mental health conditions in health insurance policies - Increase provider availability in underserved areas - Provide rapid and remote access to help - Create safer suicide care through systems change Examples: National Health Service Corps Zero Suicide 4.
Promote healthy connections - Promote healthy peer norms - Engage community members in shared activities Examples: Sources of Strength Wingman-Connect Men's Shed Stack Up Overwatch Program (StOP) Objective Zero Foundation 5.
Teach coping and problem-solving skills - Support social-emotional learning programs - Teach parenting skills to improve family relationships - Support resilience through education programs Examples: Youth Aware of Mental Health Program (YAM) Good Behavior Game Aussie Optimism Program Signs of Suicide (SOS) The Incredible Years Strengthening Families Program Family Bereavement Program Familias Unidas After Deployment Adaptive Parenting Tools 6.
Identify and support people at risk - Train gatekeepers - Respond to crises - Plan for safety and follow-up after an attempt - Provide therapeutic approaches Examples: Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training (ASIST) Question, Persuade, and Refer (QPR) Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Teen Mental Health First Aid (tMHFA) National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Attempted Suicide Short Intervention Program Improving Mood—Promoting Access to Collaborative Treatment (IMPACT) Prevention of Suicide in Primary Care Elderly: Collaborative Trial (PROSPECT) 7.
Lessens harms and prevent future risk - Intervene after a suicide (postvention) - Report and message about suicide safely Examples: StandBy Support After Suicide (StandBy) After a Suicide: A Toolkit for Schools Safe Messaging Guidelines National Recommendations for Depicting Suicide Need help?
Know someone who does?
Contact the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline if you are experiencing mental health-related distress or are worried about a loved one who may need crisis support.
Call or text 988 Chat at  Connect with a trained crisis counselor.
988 is confidential, free, and available 24/7/365.
Visit the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline for more information at  .
ON THIS PAGE Seven Strategies for Suicide Prevention Preventing suicide is a priority Suicide is preventable Strategies for action Need help?
Know someone who does?
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Suicide Prevention Suicide is one of the leading causes of death in the United States.
Learn more about Suicide Prevention.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Declaración del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos de los Estados Unidos ENGLISH (US) DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 12 de agosto del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  11 de agosto de 2025 El secretario de Salud y Servicios Humanos, Robert F.
Kennedy, Jr., visitó la sede de los CDC en Atlanta hoy en respuesta al trágico ataque con disparos del viernes que cobró la vida del agente de policía del condado de DeKalb David Rose.
El equipo de seguridad de los CDC le mostró el campus Roybal al secretario Kennedy, señalando las ventanas destrozadas en varios edificios, e incluso la garita de seguridad principal.
El subsecretario de Salud y Servicios Humanos, Jim O'Neill, y la directora de los CDC, Susan Monarez, lo acompañaron en la visita.
El secretario Kennedy también visitó el Departamento de Policía del Condado de DeKalb, donde se reunió con el jefe de la policía, Greg Padrick.
Más tarde, se reunió en privado con la viuda del agente de policía David Rose, quien valientemente dio su vida en cumplimiento de su deber.
Le ofreció su más sentido pésame y reafirmó el compromiso de la agencia de honrar el valor, sacrificio y servicio a la nación del agente Rose.
Como lo afirmó en su mensaje en la plataforma X , el secretario Kennedy dijo: "Nos entristece profundamente el trágico ataque a tiros al campus de los CDC en Atlanta que cobró la vida del agente de policía David Rose.
Nos solidarizamos con su esposa y tres hijos, y la familia completa de los CDC".
El Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos continúa su apoyo al personal de los CDC y sus familias.
La mayoría del personal de los CDC asignado al campus Roybal está trabajando desde la casa esta semana y se están implementando medidas adicionales de seguridad y protección antes de su regreso al campus.
### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Casi 100 personas enfermas en brote de Salmonella vinculado a huevos retirados del mercado ENGLISH (US) DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 29 de agosto del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una alerta de seguridad de los alimentos, relacionada con un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a huevos:  Puntos clave: 95 personas en 14 estados se han enfermado por la misma cepa de Salmonella.
18 personas han sido hospitalizadas y no se han notificado muertes.
La mayoría de las personas enfermas están en California (73 personas).
Country Eggs, LLC retiró del mercado los huevos de color marrón grandes de gallinas no enjauladas "Sunshine Yolks" el 27 de agosto del 2025.
El aviso de brote de los CDC tiene más información sobre los productos retirados del mercado.
No coma, venda ni sirva huevos retirados del mercado.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma ningún tipo de huevo retirado del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Lave los artículos y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los huevos retirados del mercado usando agua jabonosa caliente o un lavaplatos automático.
Llame a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguno de estos síntomas graves de infección por Salmonella: Diarrea y fiebre de más de 102 °F Diarrea por más de 3 días que no mejora Diarrea con sangre Tantos vómitos que no puede retener líquidos en el cuerpo Signos de deshidratación Lo que deben hacer los negocios: No vendan ni sirvan huevos retirados del mercado.
Laven y desinfecten los artículos y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los huevos retirados del mercado.
Acerca de la Salmonella: La mayoría de las personas infectadas por Salmonella presentan diarrea, fiebre y cólicos estomacales 6 horas a 6 días después de haber estado expuestas a las bacterias.
La enfermedad generalmente dura de 4 a 7 días y la mayoría de las personas se recuperan sin tratamiento.
En algunas personas la enfermedad puede ser tan grave que necesitan ser hospitalizadas.
Los niños menores de 5 años, los adultos de 65 años o mayores y las personas con el sistema inmunitario debilitado tienen más probabilidades de enfermarse gravemente.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Si usted es miembro de los medios de comunicación, llene este formulario de pedido de comentarios para enviar su consulta a los CDC.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Declaración de Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, directora (interina) del Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Enfermedades Crónicas y Promoción de la Salud de los CDC, sobre el fallecimiento de Michael Fletcher, participante de la campaña Consejos de exfumadores® Se notificaron ciertas comidas de entrega a domicilio de Metabolic Meals en la investigación en curso sobre un brote de Salmonella Declaración del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos de los Estados Unidos Los CDC lanzan una nueva campaña para abordar el consumo de sustancias y la salud mental en los jóvenes VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Declaración del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos de los Estados Unidos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Suicide Prevention EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Risk and Protective Factors Preventing Suicide Health Disparities in Suicide Suicide Facts CSP: Program Profiles Suicide Prevention Resources Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook Funded Programs VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Resources Suicide Prevention Tools VIEW ALL View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 24, 2024 The National Strategy for Suicide Prevention AT A GLANCE The 2024 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention provides concrete recommendations for addressing gaps in the suicide prevention field.
It is accompanied by the Federal Action Plan, which includes over 200 actions across the Federal government to be taken over the next three years in support of these goals.
About the National Strategy The 2024 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention (NSSP) is a bold new 10-year, comprehensive, whole-of-society approach to suicide prevention that provides concrete recommendations for addressing gaps in the suicide prevention field.
This coordinated and comprehensive approach to suicide prevention at the national, state, tribal, local, and territorial levels relies upon critical partnerships across the public and private sectors.
People with lived experience are critical to the success of this work.
The National Strategy seeks to prevent suicide risk in the first place; identify and support people with increased risk through treatment and crisis intervention; prevent reattempts; promote long-term recovery; and support survivors of suicide loss.
View Larger Many agencies and organizations worked together to create the NSSP.
Strategic directions and goals The 2024 National Strategy includes 15 goals and 87 objectives organized under four strategic directions: Strategic Direction 1: Community-Based Suicide Prevention Goal 1: Establish effective, broad-based, collaborative, and sustainable suicide prevention partnerships.
Goal 2: Support upstream comprehensive community-based suicide prevention.
Goal 3: Reduce access to lethal means among people at risk of suicide.
Goal 4: Conduct postvention and support people with suicide-centered lived experience.
Goal 5: Integrate suicide prevention into the culture of the workplace and into other community settings.
Goal 6: Build and sustain suicide prevention infrastructure at the state, tribal, local, and territorial levels.
Goal 7: Implement research-informed suicide prevention communication activities in diverse populations using best practices from communication science.
Strategic Direction 2: Treatment and Crisis Services Goal 8: Implement effective suicide prevention services as a core component of health care.
Goal 9: Improve the quality and accessibility of crisis care services across all communities.
Strategic Direction 3: Surveillance, Quality Improvement, and Research Goal 10: Improve the quality, timeliness, scope, usefulness, and accessibility of data needed for suicide-related surveillance, research, evaluation, and quality improvement.
Goal 11: Promote and support research on suicide prevention.
Strategic Direction 4: Health Equity in Suicide Prevention Goal 12: Embed health equity into all comprehensive suicide prevention activities.
Goal 13: Implement comprehensive suicide prevention strategies for populations disproportionately affected by suicide, with a focus on historically marginalized communities, persons with suicide-centered lived experience, and youth.
Goal 14: Create an equitable and diverse suicide prevention workforce that is equipped and supported to address the needs of the communities they serve.
Goal 15: Improve and expand effective suicide prevention programs for populations disproportionately impacted by suicide across the life span through improved data, research, and evaluation.
The Federal Action Plan The National Strategy is accompanied by the first ever Federal Action Plan.
The National Strategy is accompanied by the first ever Federal Action Plan (Action Plan) , which identifies more than 200 actions across the Federal government to be taken over the next three years in support of the NSSP's goals.
These actions include: Evaluating promising community-based suicide prevention strategies Identifying ways to address substance use/overdose and suicide risk together in the clinical setting Funding a mobile crisis locator for use by 988 crisis centers Increasing support for survivors of suicide loss and others whose lives have been impacted by suicide These actions will be monitored and evaluated regularly to determine progress and success, and to further identify barriers to suicide prevention.
Injury Center's actions View Larger CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control is leading 25 actions in the Federal Action Plan.
CDC’s National Center for Injury Prevention and Control is leading 25 actions in the Federal Action Plan .
Goals and objectives Action 2.6, 3.4, 8.4, 10.4 CDC will continue to collect data and implement activities that address shared risk and protective factors related to suicide and substance use.
2.6, 3.4, 12.3 CDC will implement activities that can address shared risk and protective factors for substance use and suicide with a focus on youth within the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) program.
2.7, 13.2, 13.3, 13.4, 13.7 CDC will work with SAMHSA and NIH to test and evaluate promising suicide prevention strategies.
2.7, 2.8, 5.3 CDC will develop and promote a toolkit for evaluating upstream suicide prevention activities in Veteran serving organizations.
2.8 If additional funding is available, CDC will expand the Comprehensive Suicide Prevention program.
3.1, 3.2 CDC will continue to fund programmatic and research opportunities to develop, implement, and evaluate interventions to enhance lethal means safety in suicide prevention efforts.
3.1, 3.2 CDC will assess prevalence of practices related to safe storage of lethal means at the state and national levels to inform prevention efforts.
6.2 CDC will conduct a series of community learning forums/webinars that support dissemination of resources and tools to help build comprehensive suicide prevention capacity among local, state, and tribal public health agencies.
7, 13.1, 13.2, 13.3 CDC, in collaboration with SAMHSA, will lead the development of a Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook focused on how to develop behavior change communication campaigns.
7.1 CDC will release a Vital Signs report on suicide that examines disparities.
7.4 CDC and SAMHSA will collaborate on the development and implementation of a national suicide prevention campaign, pending.
7.6 CDC will collaborate with partners to develop training for journalists on how to find, interpret, and use suicide data.
8.9, 2.6 CDC will support training of clinicians, health care providers, and gatekeepers in effective intervention, treatment, and follow-up for patients at risk of suicide and overdose.
9.2, 9.5, 9.6 CDC will increase collaboration and coordination between 988 and other call centers to improve jurisdictional coordination.
10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 CDC will complete a data challenge related to understanding risk and protective factors for suicide outcomes.
10.2, 10.3 CDC will collaborate with SAMHSA to explore sharing and use of de-identified Suicide Prevention Lifeline and other data.
10.2 CDC will continue to improve timeliness and understanding of intent of emergency department visits for firearm-related injuries.
10.2 CDC will add social determinants of health data to the NVDRS Restricted Access Dataset to enable data users to explore suicide-related risk and protective factors.
10.2 CDC will add social determinants of health data to the Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System (WISQARS) Health Equity module.
10.4 CDC will combine surveillance data on emergency department visits associated with mental health conditions with suicide-related outcome data to understand how trends in mental health ED visits relate to trends in suicide-related outcomes.
10.4 CDC will support linkage of surveillance data on suicides with data from prior emergency department visits to elucidate common reasons for medical visits in the year prior to a suicide 11.4 CDC will continue to fund applied public health research that can expand understanding of shared risk and protective factors for suicide 13.3, 15.4 CDC will identify and share with the public and suicide prevention partners and practitioners’ accomplishments and lessons learned.
14.2, 2.6 CDC will facilitate and track health care professionals’ education on best practices for reducing stigma associated with suicide and overdose.
15.5, 2.3, 2.7, 13.1 CDC will support implementation of tools and other resources available for Indigenous evaluation such as an Indigenous Evaluation Toolkit for Suicide Prevention Programs.
ON THIS PAGE About the National Strategy Strategic directions and goals The Federal Action Plan Injury Center's actions RELATED PAGES Suicide Prevention Resources Publications Data Sources Suicide Resource for Action General Resources VIEW ALL Suicide Prevention Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook SOURCES PRINT SHARE Suicide Prevention Suicide is one of the leading causes of death in the United States.
Learn more about Suicide Prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Suicide Prevention EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Risk and Protective Factors Preventing Suicide Health Disparities in Suicide Suicide Facts CSP: Program Profiles Suicide Prevention Resources Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook Funded Programs VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Resources Suicide Prevention Tools VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 General Resources AT A GLANCE There are many resources available to help prevent suicide.
View resources for suicide prevention from CDC and other federal sources.
Helplines Need help?
Know someone who does?
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline The 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline is a 24-hour, toll-free, confidential suicide prevention hotline available to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress.
Calls are routed to the nearest crisis center in a national network, where callers receive crisis counseling and mental health referrals.
Contact the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline if you are experiencing mental health-related distress or are worried about a loved one who may need crisis support.
Call or text 988 Chat at  Connect with a trained crisis counselor.
988 is confidential, free, and available 24/7/365.
Visit the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline for more information at  .
The Trevor Project 24/7 Suicide Hotline for Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Youth: Call 1-866-488-7386 or text START to 678-678.
Disaster Distress Helpline Disaster Distress Helpline : CALL or TEXT 1-800-985-5990 (press 2 for Spanish) Veteran's Crisis Line Veteran's Crisis Line : 988, then select 1, or Crisis Chat or text: 838255 CDC resources Support and prevention resources Coping with Stress CDC's web page on learning to cope with stress in a healthy way.
Coping with a Disaster or Traumatic Event CDC's web page on mental health during and after a disaster includes information on coping with the stress that results from natural and manmade traumatic events.
Mental Health This page provides information on all of CDC's work related to mental health.
Information about suicide in the United States Suicide in Rural America CDC's web page on suicide in rural areas provides reports, a policy brief, a press release, and suicide prevention resources.
Suicide Disparities Infographic This infographic highlights disparities in suicide rates across the United States.
People of any age, race, ethnicity, or sex can experience suicide risk, but certain groups have substantially higher rates of suicide than the general U.S.
population.
Other federal resources Campaigns BeThe1To This is the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline's campaign for National Suicide Prevention Month and beyond, spreading the word about actions we can all take to prevent suicide.
Federal organizations Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Suicide Prevention Program (SAMHSA) SAMHSA is the federal agency charged with improving the quality and availability of prevention, treatment, and rehabilitative services to reduce illness, death, disability, and cost to society resulting from substance abuse and mental illnesses.
National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) NIMH is the lead institute at the National Institutes of Health dedicated to research on mental health disorders.
National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) NCTSN works to raise the standard of care and improve access to services for traumatized children, their families, and communities throughout the United States.
The Suicide Prevention Resource Center (SPRC) The Suicide Prevention Resource Center (SPRC) is the only federally supported resource center devoted to advancing the implementation of the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention.
Community-Led Suicide Prevention Community-Led Suicide Prevention (CLSP) helps communities come together to create and reach their suicide prevention goals.
CLSP's web-based toolkit includes step-by-step information and how-to tools for implementing CDC's Suicide Prevention Resource for Action.
Indian Health Service Suicide Prevention Program This national initiative to prevent suicide is based on fostering collaborations across tribes, tribal organizations, urban Indian organizations, and the entire Indian Health System.
Department of Defense Suicide Prevention The U.S.
Department of Defense Suicide Prevention Office oversees the suicide prevention work across all branches of the military.
National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention The National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention is the public-private partnership advancing the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention.
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Suicide Prevention The VA provides health and mental health services to U.S.
This page provides information about mental health conditions, including suicide prevention, and how veterans can get help.
Funding opportunities Injury Center Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs) CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control's web page contains information about funding opportunity announcements.
ON THIS PAGE Helplines CDC resources Other federal resources Funding opportunities RELATED PAGES Suicide Prevention Resources Publications Data Sources Suicide Resource for Action National Strategy for Suicide Prevention VIEW ALL Suicide Prevention National Strategy for Suicide Prevention SOURCES PRINT SHARE Suicide Prevention Suicide is one of the leading causes of death in the United States.
Learn more about Suicide Prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Suicide Prevention EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Risk and Protective Factors Preventing Suicide Health Disparities in Suicide Suicide Facts CSP: Program Profiles Suicide Prevention Resources Suicide Prevention Communication Playbook Funded Programs VIEW ALL Public Health Social Media Resources Suicide Prevention Tools VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 12, 2024 Data Sources AT A GLANCE This page contains data sources for injury prevention including WISQARS, along with other sources from CDC, federal agencies, and non-federal agencies.
Guidelines for reporting on suicide Media and online coverage of suicide should follow best practices.
The way media cover suicide can influence behavior positively by encouraging help-seeking or negatively by contributing to contagion.
View safe reporting guidelines for media CDC data systems and sources WEB-BASED INJURY STATISTICS QUERY AND REPORTING SYSTEM (WISQARS) CDC's interactive, online database provides fatal and nonfatal injury, violent death, and cost of injury data.
WISQARS tutorials Create your own US state- or county-level map.
NATIONAL VIOLENT DEATH REPORTING SYSTEM (NVDRS) CDC funds the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico to gather, share, and link state-level data on violent deaths.
NVDRS provides CDC and states with a more complete understanding of violent deaths.
This enables policymakers and community leaders to make informed decisions about violence prevention programs, including those that address suicide.
NATIONAL ELECTRONIC INJURY SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM-ALL INJURY PROGRAM (NEISS-AIP) NEISS-AIP provides nationally representative data about all types and causes of nonfatal injuries treated in United States hospital emergency departments.
CDC uses NEISS-AIP data to generate national estimates of nonfatal injuries, including those related to self-harm.
CDC WONDER: WIDE RANGING ONLINE DATA FOR EPIDEMIOLOGIC RESEARCH CDC WONDER manages nearly 20 collections of public-use data for U.S.
births, deaths, cancer diagnoses, tuberculosis cases, vaccinations, environmental exposures, and population estimates, among many other topics.
These data collections are available as online databases, which provide public access to ad-hoc queries, summary statistics, maps, charts, and data extracts.
YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM (YRBSS) CDC's YRBSS monitors health risk behaviors that contribute to the leading causes of death, disability, and social problems, including suicide attempts and related behaviors, among 9th through 12th grade students in the United States.
THE NATIONAL AMBULATORY MEDICAL CARE SURVEY (NAMCS) NAMCS is designed to meet the need for objective, reliable information about the provision and use of ambulatory medical care services in the United States.
Findings are based on a sample of visits to non-federally employed office-based physicians who are primarily engaged in direct patient care and, starting in 2006, a separate sample of visits to community health centers.
THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL AMBULATORY MEDICAL CARE SURVEY (NHAMCS) NHAMCS is designed to collect data on the utilization and provision of ambulatory care services in hospital emergency and outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery locations.
Findings are based on a national sample of visits to the emergency departments, outpatient departments, and ambulatory surgery locations of non-institutional general and short-stay hospitals.
Leading causes of death (WISQARS) ANIMATED TOP TEN LEADING CAUSES OF DEATH IN THE U.S.
CREATE YOUR OWN LEADING CAUSES OF DEATH CHART THROUGH WISQARS.
WISQARS Leading Causes of Death: Suicide Suicide is the fourth leading cause of death for people ages 10-54 in 2019-2021.
WISQARS: Suicide Data Visualization by Age Group Some age groups are at higher risk for suicide than others.
Other federal data sources NATIONAL SURVEY ON DRUG USE AND HEALTH (NSDUH) NSDUH provides up-to-date information on substance use, mental health conditions, and suicide-related behaviors in the United States.
NATIONAL INPATIENT SAMPLE (NIS) The NIS is a database of hospital inpatient stays used to identify, track, and analyze national trends in health care utilization, access, charges, quality, and outcomes including injuries from suicide attempts.
Non-federal data sources GLOBAL HEALTH OBSERVATORY (GHO) DATA GHO is WHO's gateway to health-related statistics for more than 1,000 indicators for its 194 Member States.
ON THIS PAGE Guidelines for reporting on suicide CDC data systems and sources Leading causes of death (WISQARS) Other federal data sources Non-federal data sources RELATED PAGES Suicide Prevention Resources Publications Suicide Resource for Action General Resources National Strategy for Suicide Prevention VIEW ALL Suicide Prevention Suicide Resource for Action SOURCES PRINT SHARE Suicide Prevention Suicide is one of the leading causes of death in the United States.
Learn more about Suicide Prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of Communications (OC) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OC.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OC structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OC Organization Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF COMMUNICATIONS (CAU) Level 1: Office of the Director, (C,A,U,1) Level 1.1: Office of Internal Communication and Engagement, (C,A,U,1,4) Level 1.1: Office of the CDC Museum, (C,A,U,1,5) Level 1.1: Office of Management and Operations, (C,A,U,1,6) Level 1.1: Office of Emergency and Risk Communications (C,A,U,1,7) Level 2: Division of Communication Science and Services, (C,A,U,E) Level 3: Communication Science Branch, (C,A,U,E,B) Level 3: Communication Support and Services Branch, (C,A,U,E,C) Level 2: Division of Digital Media, (C,A,U,G) Level 3: Enterprise Technology Branch, (C,A,U,G,B) Level 3: Visual Design Branch, (C,A,U,G,C) Level 3: Content and Engagement Branch, (C,A,U,G,D) Level 2: Division of Media Relations, (C,A,U,H) Level 3: Media Support Branch, (C,A,U,H,B) Level 3: Broadcast and Multimedia Branch, (C,A,U,H,C) Approved 6/28/2023 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts CDCW GHC OEEO OHE VIEW ALL About CDC OEEO SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Los CDC lanzan una nueva campaña para abordar el consumo de sustancias y la salud mental en los jóvenes ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 5 de agosto del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Mente Libre La temporada de regreso a la escuela es un muy buen momento para hablar con los jóvenes sobre la salud mental y el consumo de sustancias, para fomentar su bienestar durante todo el año académico.
Para apoyar estas conversaciones, los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) han lanzado Free Mind (Mente Libre), una nueva campaña nacional que proporciona a los jóvenes de 12 a 17 años, y a sus padres y cuidadores, recursos e información sobre el consumo de sustancias, la salud mental y la conexión entre los dos.
La crisis de sobredosis de drogas está evolucionando constantemente y sigue siendo un problema de salud pública importante.
En el 2024, murieron más de 80 000 personas en los EE.
por sobredosis de drogas.
Del 2020 al 2024, el 75 % de las muertes por sobredosis entre los jóvenes de 10 a 19 años estuvieron relacionadas con fentanilo fabricado de manera ilegal.
Además, la cantidad de adolescentes que reportan mala salud mental ha aumentado en la última década.
En el 2023, el 40 % de los estudiantes de escuela secundaria superior dejaron de hacer actividades habituales debido a sentimientos persistentes de tristeza o desesperanza, y uno de cada cinco estudiantes consideró seriamente intentar suicidarse.
"Los adolescentes podrían usar el alcohol y otras sustancias como ayuda para sobrellevar el estrés, la ansiedad y la depresión", dijo la Dra.
Allison Arwady, directora del Centro Nacional para la Prevención y el Control de Lesiones de los CDC.
"Hablar abiertamente sobre la salud mental y el consumo de sustancias, y saber cuándo buscar ayuda profesional, es fundamental para ayudar a los adolescentes a mantenerse sanos.
Esa es la razón por la que esta campaña apoya a los jóvenes, padres y cuidadores para que tengan esas conversaciones temprano, antes de que surja algún problema", agregó.
Los CDC hablaron directamente con jóvenes acerca de sus conocimientos y percepciones sobre el consumo de sustancias para crear los mensajes, la marca y estrategias tácticas para Free Mind (Mente Libre).
La campaña busca resonar con este grupo de edad al abordar las conexiones entre el consumo de sustancias y la salud mental, los factores de riesgo que contribuyen al consumo de sustancias y las estrategias para mantenerlos seguros.
Los CDC también han creado recursos para padres y cuidadores sobre los desafíos que los jóvenes podrían estar enfrentando recientemente en relación con el consumo de sustancias y la salud mental.
Visite Free Mind (Mente Libre): Concientización sobre la salud mental y el consumo de sustancias para adolescentes | CDC para obtener más información sobre la campaña Free Mind (Mente Libre).
Para obtener más información sobre los esfuerzos de los CDC para prevenir las sobredosis, visite Prevención de sobredosis | Prevención de sobredosis | CDC.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Casi 100 personas enfermas en brote de Salmonella vinculado a huevos retirados del mercado Declaración del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos de los Estados Unidos Declaración de Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, directora (interina) del Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Enfermedades Crónicas y Promoción de la Salud de los CDC, sobre el fallecimiento de Christine Brader, participante de la campaña Consejos de exfumadores® El secretario Kennedy juramenta a Susan Monarez como directora de los CDC para avanzar la agenda de "Hacer que los EE.
vuelvan a ser saludables" VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Declaración de Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, directora (interina) del Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Enfermedades Crónicas y Promoción de la Salud de los CDC, sobre el fallecimiento de Christine Brader, participante de la campaña Consejos de exfumadores® FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All Nearly 100 people sick in Salmonella outbreak linked to recalled eggs MEDIA ALERT For immediate release: August 28, 2025 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  A CDC food safety alert regarding a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to eggs has been posted:  Key Points: 95 people from 14 states have gotten sick from the same strain of Salmonella.
Eighteen people have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported.
Most of the sick people are from California (73 people).
Country Eggs, LLC recalled Large Brown Cage Free "Sunshine Yolks" eggs on August 27, 2025.
CDC's outbreak notice has more information about the recalled products.
Do not eat, sell, or serve recalled eggs.
What You Should Do: Do not eat any recalled eggs.
Throw them away or return them to where you bought them.
Wash items and surfaces that may have touched the recalled eggs using hot soapy water or a dishwasher.
Call your healthcare provider if you have any of these severe Salmonella symptoms: Diarrhea and a fever higher than 102°F Diarrhea for more than 3 days that is not improving Bloody diarrhea So much vomiting that you cannot keep liquids down Signs of dehydration What Businesses Should Do: Do not sell or serve recalled eggs.
Wash and sanitize items and surfaces that may have come in contact with recalled eggs.
About Salmonella: Most people infected with Salmonella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps 6 hours to 6 days after being exposed to the bacteria.
The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most people recover without treatment.
In some people, the illness may be so severe that the patient is hospitalized.
Children younger than 5, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illness.
If you have questions about cases in a particular state, please call that state's health department.
If you are a member of the media, please fill out this Request for Comment form to submit your media inquiry to CDC.
Thank you, CDC News Media Branch ### U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All For Everyone JANUARY 26, 2024 Office of Health Equity (OHE) AT A GLANCE Explore organizational chart and structure for OHE.
Access resources for comprehensive insight into OHE structure.
Organizational Structure Resources OHE Organization Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OFFICE OF HEALTH EQUITY, (C,A,G) Level 1: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR, (C,A,G,1) Level 2: OFFICE OF MINORITY HEALTH, (C,A,G,C) Level 2: OFFICE OF WOMEN'S HEALTH, (C,A,G,D) APPROVED 9/13/2024 RELATED PAGES CDC Organizational Charts OC OEEO OLSS OPPE VIEW ALL About CDC OLSS SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo El secretario Kennedy juramenta a Susan Monarez como directora de los CDC para avanzar la agenda de "Hacer que los EE.
vuelvan a ser saludables" ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 4 de agosto del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  WASHINGTON—31 de julio, 2025—Susan Monarez, Ph.D.
fue juramentada hoy como la directora de los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) por parte del secretario de Salud y Servicios Humanos Robert F.
Kennedy, Jr.
La directora Monarez, la primera directora de los CDC confirmada por el Senado, trae consigo décadas de experiencia de primera línea en preparación para desastres, bioseguridad e innovación en salud.
Como directora de los CDC, liderará la agencia en su misión renovada de prevenir enfermedades y defender contra amenazas para la salud tanto domésticas como en el extranjero, con el fin de avanzar la más amplia visión del presidente Trump y el secretario Kennedy de "Hacer que los Estados Unidos vuelvan a ser saludables".
Monarez es una experta en salud pública con credenciales científicas impecables", dijo el secretario Kennedy.
"Tengo plena confianza en su capacidad para restaurar el papel de los CDC como la autoridad más confiable en salud pública y para fortalecer la capacidad de respuesta de nuestra nación para enfrentar las enfermedades infecciosas y amenazas a la bioseguridad".
"Es un gran honor unirme al secretario Kennedy y al equipo de líderes del HHS", dijo la directora Monarez.
"Considero un privilegio trabajar junto a los funcionarios públicos de los CDC.
Juntos vamos a fortalecer y modernizar la preparación y respuesta de la nación en materia de salud pública a través de la ciencia y la innovación.
Trabajaremos todos los días en los CDC para que los EE.
vuelvan a ser saludables".
La directora Monarez más recientemente se desempeñó como directora interina de los CDC y subdirectora de la Agencia de Proyectos de Investigación Avanzada para la Salud, donde transformó las tecnologías de recolección de datos, detección y tratamiento de enfermedades de la división operativa del HHS.
Anteriormente ocupó cargos de liderazgo y asesoramiento en la Autoridad de Investigación y Desarrollo Biomédico Avanzado del HHS, el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional, la Oficina de Política de Ciencia y Tecnología de la Casa Blanca, y el Consejo de Seguridad Nacional.
La directora Monarez obtuvo su doctorado en microbiología e inmunología de la Universidad de Wisconsin-Madison en donde realizó investigaciones sobre el desarrollo de tecnologías dirigidas a la prevención, el diagnóstico y el tratamiento de enfermedades infecciosas.
Completó sus investigaciones de posdoctorado como becaria en la facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de Stanford.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC lanzan una nueva campaña para abordar el consumo de sustancias y la salud mental en los jóvenes Declaración de Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, directora (interina) del Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Enfermedades Crónicas y Promoción de la Salud de los CDC, sobre el fallecimiento de Christine Brader, participante de la campaña Consejos de exfumadores® Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a germinados de frijol congelados El Comité Asesor sobre Vacunación de los CDC concluye su reunión con un comunicado conjunto VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a germinados de frijol congelados FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All Site Index Find Information For Everyone CDC Newsroom Releases Statement from Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, Director (Acting), CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, on the passing of Suzy Ellis, Tips From Former Smokers® participant CDC expands Listeria outbreak to include more prepared meals CDC Reports Latest National Data on Syphilis in Newborns and Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) CDC Report Finds Sharp Rise in Dangerous Drug-Resistant Bacteria Statement from Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, Director (Acting), CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, on the passing of Michael Fletcher, Tips From Former Smokers® participant Certain Metabolic Meals home delivery foods reported in ongoing Salmonella outbreak investigation Nearly 100 people sick in Salmonella outbreak linked to recalled eggs Statement from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services CDC Launches New Campaign to Address Youth Substance Use and Mental Health Statement from Laura Chanchien Parajón, MD, MPH, Director (Acting), CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, on the passing of Christine Brader, Tips from Former Smokers® participant Secretary Kennedy Swears in Susan Monarez as CDC Director to Advance 'Make America Healthy Again' Agenda CDC warns of Salmonella outbreak linked to frozen sprouted beans CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Concludes Meeting with Joint Statement CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices to Meet June 25–26 CDC warns of Listeria outbreak linked to recalled chicken fettuccine alfredo meals CDC warns of Salmonella outbreak linked to pistachio cream CDC warns of Salmonella outbreak linked to eggs CDC warns of Salmonella outbreak linked to whole cucumbers Statement from CDC’s National Center for Injury Prevention and Control on Provisional 2024 Overdose Death Data CDC announces Salmonella outbreak linked to backyard poultry CDC Statement on Measles Outbreak CDC Statement on Measles Outbreak CDC Reports Nearly 24% Decline in U.S.
Drug Overdose Deaths CDC warns of Listeria outbreak linked to supplement shakes distributed in long-term care facilities U.S.
Government Releases First National One Health Plan to Protect People, Animals, and Our Environment from Shared Health Threats First H5 Bird Flu Death Reported in United States CDC Confirms First Severe Case of H5N1 Bird Flu in the United States CDC warns of a Salmonella outbreak linked to cucumbers CDC warns of Listeria linked to ready-to-eat meat and poultry products CDC confirms H5N1 Bird Flu Infection in a Child in California CDC warns of new E.
coli outbreak linked to organic carrots California confirms first clade I mpox case Measles cases surge worldwide, infecting 10.3 million people in 2023 2023 CDC data suggest the STI epidemic may be slowing Transcript for MMWR Telebriefing: Evidence of Recent H5 Bird Flu Infections among Dairy Workers and CDC Guidance Updates Onions served at McDonald's are likely source of E.
coli outbreak Lassa Fever Suspected in Death of U.S.
Traveler Returning from West Africa More cases reported in E.
coli outbreak linked to McDonald’s Quarter Pounders; Taylor Farms recalls onions sent to restaurants CDC Recommends Lowering the Age for Pneumococcal Vaccination from 65 to 50 Years Old CDC Recommends Second Dose of 2024-2025 COVID-19 Vaccine for People 65 Years and Older and for People Who are Moderately or Severely Immunocompromised Severe E coli outbreak in Mountain West states linked to McDonald's Quarter Pounders; McDonald's removes suspect ingredients temporarily Youth Tobacco Product Use at a 25-Year Low, Yet Disparities Persist CDC Confirms New Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu in California CDC Confirms 3rd Human Case of H5 Bird Flu in California Potential public health risk among individuals ordering counterfeit prescription medications from online pharmacies CDC Statement on Marburg Cases in Rwanda Reports of new illnesses slows; CDC continues to investigate the Listeria outbreak linked to deli meats CDC Awards Over $176 Million to Strengthen U.S Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce New CDC Data Show Adult Obesity Prevalence Remains High Transcript for Vital Signs Telebriefing: Suicide risk is tied to local economic and social conditions New CDC Report Shows Suicide Risk Tied to Local Economic and Social Conditions CDC Confirms Human H5 Bird Flu Case in Missouri CDC warns of recalled eggs sold in Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, linked to Salmonella outbreak Youth E-Cigarette Use Drops to Lowest Level in a Decade More illnesses and deaths in Listeria outbreak linked to deli meats is reminder to avoid recalled products CDC Awards $118.5 Million to Enhance Maternal Mortality Research and Prevention Efforts FACT SHEET: United States Response to the Clade I Mpox Outbreak in Several African Countries CDC Investigation Notice: Tiny turtles, illegal to sell as pets, causing Salmonella illnesses again in young kids Transcript for Vital Signs Telebriefing: Vaccines for Children Program Celebrates 30 Years of Providing Lifesaving Vaccinations to Children at No Cost Vaccines for Children Program Celebrates 30 Years of Providing Lifesaving Vaccines to Children at No Cost More Cases and Additional Death Reported in Listeria Outbreak Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Data Show Improvements in Youth Mental Health but Need for Safer and More Supportive Schools CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers CDC Updates Dog Importation Process CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis Contact Media Relations Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom NIOSH Newsroom GHC Newsroom Didn't find the information you were looking for?
Health Topics A-Z CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Loading data...
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All CDC Newsroom Releases For Everyone MAR.
26, 2024 ESPAÑOL HIGHLIGHTS This page displays all press releases from 2021 through 2024.
These releases include press releases, media statements, transcripts and media advisories.
Search Press Releases Please use the search field to look for specific words or phrases.
You can also “filter” by categories (release type), and topic by clicking on the checkboxes.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo El Comité Asesor sobre Prácticas de Vacunación de los CDC concluye su reunión con un comunicado conjunto ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 27 de junio del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  ATLANTA—26 DE JUNIO DEL 2025—El Comité Asesor sobre Prácticas de Vacunación (ACIP) de los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) se reunió el miércoles y jueves, 25 y 26 de junio del 2025, en la sede de los CDC en Atlanta, Georgia.
El ACIP está integrado por líderes expertos en medicina y salud pública que asesoran a los CDC en cuanto a la seguridad, eficacia y necesidad clínica de las vacunas.
El ACIP decidió por medio de una votación: Aprobar, por cinco votos a favor y dos en contra, una dosis de clesrovimab, un anticuerpo monoclonal para los bebés cuyas madres no estén protegidas por la vacuna materna contra el virus respiratorio sincitial (VRS o RSV, por sus siglas en inglés).
Clesrovimab es uno de los dos productos de anticuerpos monoclonales contra el VRS disponibles.
Aprobar, por siete votos a favor y cero en contra, la resolución actualizada del Programa Vacunas para Niños para la prevención del VRS.
Reafirmar la recomendación, por seis votos a favor y cero en contra, para la vacunación anual de rutina contra la influenza (gripe) de todas las personas mayores de seis meses que no tengan contraindicaciones.
Recomendar, por cinco votos a favor y uno en contra, que los niños de 18 años y menores reciban vacunas contra la influenza estacional solo en formulaciones de dosis única libres de timerosal (tiomersal) como conservante.
Recomendar, por cinco votos a favor y uno en contra, que las mujeres embarazadas reciban vacunas contra la influenza estacional solo en formulaciones de dosis única libres de timerosal (tiomersal) como conservante.
Recomendar, por cinco votos a favor y uno en contra, que todos los adultos reciban vacunas contra la influenza estacional solo en formulaciones de dosis única libres de timerosal (tiomersal) como conservante.
Las recomendaciones hechas por el ACIP son revisadas por el director de los CDC y, si se adoptan, son publicadas como recomendaciones oficiales de los CDC/HHS en el Informe Semanal de Morbilidad y Mortalidad.
El director de los CDC informa al secretario de Salud y Servicios Humanos y al subsecretario de Salud acerca de las recomendaciones sobre vacunaciones.
EL ACIP tiene la intención de llevar a cabo su próxima reunión en el tercer trimestre del 2025.
Los miembros del ACIP emitieron el siguiente comunicado al concluir la reunión de hoy: Honestidad, transparencia y compasión con respecto a la salud pública.
Estos son los tres pilares por los cuales nosotros, los nuevos miembros del ACIP, nos guiamos.
Nuestro deber central es proteger la salud pública y entendemos que debemos responder el llamado para restablecer la confianza en el proceso de análisis científico.
Este comité apoya firmemente el uso de vacunas, y otras contramedidas, fundamentadas en la medicina basada en la evidencia, que incluye una evaluación rigurosa y datos científicos amplios y confiables, tanto para la seguridad como para la eficacia.
Todas las partes interesadas, incluidos los proveedores de atención médica, padres, niños, escuelas, hogares para personas mayores, proveedores de seguro, agencias de salud pública, fabricantes y las pocas personas que podrían ser perjudicadas por las intervenciones recomendadas, necesitan tener información comprensible, digerible y científicamente correcta.
Este grupo está comprometido a proporcionar esa información y para hacer eso debemos tener datos que representen a grandes poblaciones.
La recolección de datos es un asunto central que podría requerir la elaboración de un análisis amplio de riesgos y beneficios.
El comité se esforzará por evaluar el estado de los programas que tienen como fin recolectar datos de grandes poblaciones que han o no han recibido vacunas.
Estos datos son necesarios para evaluar los efectos secundarios adversos tanto a corto como a largo plazo, y para evaluar la magnitud de los efectos secundarios.
Llegamos a esta reunión sin ideas preconcebidas y tomaremos decisiones como si estuviéramos tratando a nuestras propias familias.
El pensamiento científico imparcial es fundamental para el mandato del comité.
Nuestros votos son recomendaciones, pero sabemos que algunas personas podrían percibirlos como mandatos, así que asumimos esta responsabilidad muy seriamente.
Prometemos no realizar una votación si no hay suficiente información que permita la evaluación de los riesgos y beneficios.
Este comité no compite con otros comités, organizaciones ni entre sí; todos competimos contra las enfermedades infecciosas y trabajaremos juntos para garantizar los mejores resultados para la salud pública.
### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis STATEMENT Media Alert - A CDC Investigation Notice regarding a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections has been posted at 
For immediate release: July 19, 2024 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286  A CDC Investigation Notice regarding a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections has been posted at 
Key Points: 28 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 12 states.
Twenty-eight people have been hospitalized and two deaths have been reported, one from Illinois and one from New Jersey.
In interviews with sick people, 16 of 18 (89%) reported eating meats sliced at deli counters.
Our investigation is ongoing to determine which deli meat may be contaminated.
We do not have information to show that people are getting sick from prepackaged deli meats.
What You Should Do: People who are at higher risk for getting sick with Listeria should avoid eating meats sliced at deli counters, unless heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving.
Clean your refrigerator, containers, and surfaces that may have touched sliced deli meats.
Call your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of Listeria and recently ate meats sliced at deli counters.
Businesses should follow USDA-FSIS best practices for controlling Listeria contamination in deli areas.
About Listeria: Listeria can cause severe illness (known as invasive listeriosis) when the bacteria spread beyond the gut to other parts of the body.
Pregnant people typically experience only fever, fatigue, and muscle aches.
However, Listeria infection during pregnancy can lead to miscarriage, stillbirth, premature delivery, or life-threatening infection of the newborn.
People who are not pregnant may experience headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions, in addition to fever and muscle aches.
Symptoms of severe illness usually start 1 to 4 weeks after eating contaminated food with Listeria but may start as early as the same day or as late as 70 days after.
If you have questions about cases in a particular state, please call that state’s health department.
Thank you, CDC Media Support Branch 404-639-3286 RELATED PAGES Releases More Cases and Additional Death Reported in Listeria Outbreak Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Data Show Improvements in Youth Mental Health but Need for Safer and More Supportive Schools CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers CDC Updates Dog Importation Process VIEW ALL CDC Newsroom ### U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
Contact Media Relations SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All ESPAÑOL CDC Updates Dog Importation Process STATEMENT Media Statement - CDC has clarified and simplified the process for bringing dogs into the United States from rabies-free and low risk dog rabies countries.
For immediate release: July 22, 2024 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286  CDC has clarified and simplified the process for bringing dogs into the United States from rabies-free and low risk dog rabies countries.
CDC aims to protect the health of U.S.
communities and animals and prevent the re-introduction of dog rabies to the United States.
These updates incorporate the feedback received from the public, industry partners, and various countries on the dog importation rule, and clarify and simplify the processes for those bringing dogs from dog rabies-free or low-risk countries.
This update also includes a process for waiver requests for the airline industry.
This form can be filled out the day of travel and the receipt can be shown to airlines and border officials as a printed copy or by phone.
The receipt will be good for travel into the U.S.
for six months from the date of issuance, including multiple entries.
All dogs entering the United States must have a microchip and be over six months of age.
Additional documents and requirements will still be in effect for dogs coming from high-risk countries.
For more information and updates visit: 
RELATED PAGES Releases More Cases and Additional Death Reported in Listeria Outbreak Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Data Show Improvements in Youth Mental Health but Need for Safer and More Supportive Schools CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis VIEW ALL CDC Newsroom ### U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All ESPAÑOL CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers STATEMENT Media Statement - Three additional human cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) (“H5 bird flu”) virus infection have been confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in association with a second poultry farm in Northeast Colorado/Weld County.
For immediate release: July 25, 2024 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286  July 25, 2024 – Three additional human cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) (“H5 bird flu”) virus infection have been confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in association with a second poultry farm in Northeast Colorado/Weld County.
Colorado previously announced one of them as a presumptive positive case on Saturday, July 20.
The three confirmed cases occurred in people who were working directly with infected poultry at a commercial egg layer operation that had reported an outbreak of H5 bird flu among poultry.
All three people have mild illness and have been offered the antiviral drug, oseltamivir, for treatment.
State and local officials continue to monitor poultry workers on farms with infected poultry.
This is a different farm in Colorado from the one where on Friday, July 19, CDC confirmed two additional human cases of H5 bird flu, which brought the total human cases associated with that first poultry farm to six.
With the addition of these three new confirmed human cases, the total number of human cases associated with the current poultry outbreaks in Colorado is nine.
A CDC multidisciplinary, bilingual field team is currently deployed to support Colorado’s response to ongoing poultry outbreaks of H5 bird flu in the state.
Confirmation of these three additional cases brings the total number of human cases of H5 bird flu reported in the United States since April 2024 to 13.
Prior to 2024, the only previous human case of H5N1 bird flu in the United States was reported among a poultry worker in Colorado in April 2022.
Counting that case, there have been 14 total human cases of H5 bird flu in the United States since 2022.
Based on available data, CDC’s current assessment is that the risk to the general public from H5N1 remains low.
As we learn more, we will continue to assess the situation and provide updates.
These preliminary results again underscore the risk of exposure to infected animals.
There are no signs of unexpected increases in flu activity otherwise in Colorado, or in other states affected by H5 bird flu outbreaks in cows and poultry.
Human infections with this novel influenza A virus (and others) are concerning because of the potential to cause severe, widespread disease.
To date, we have not seen genetic changes in the virus that would make it more likely to transmit between humans, but we are closely monitoring it.
CDC’s recommendations related to H5 virus have not changed at this time.
Findings from the investigation will inform whether guidance changes are needed.
The investigation will include looking into compliance with the recommended use of personal protective equipment.
Historically, most human cases of bird flu infection have happened in people who are not wearing recommended personal protective equipment.
An analysis of the virus sequences from this outbreak also will be important to determine if a change in the risk assessment is warranted.
CDC Recommendations • People should avoid unprotected exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows).
• People should also avoid unprotected exposures to animal feces (poop), bedding (litter), unpasteurized (“raw”) milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus.
• CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
CDC also has updated recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person’s risk and containing the overall public health risk.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Newsroom EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Releases Contact Media Relations VIEW ALL Related Topics: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom View All CDC Investigating Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis ESPAÑOL STATEMENT For immediate release: July 26, 2024 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286  A CDC Investigation Notice update regarding a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections has been posted at 
Key Points: Thirty-four people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 13 states.
Thirty-three people have been hospitalized and two deaths have been reported, one from Illinois and one from New Jersey.
In interviews with sick people, 23 of 24 (89%) reported eating meats sliced at deli counters.
Thirteen people reported eating deli sliced liverwurst, with seven of those reporting Boar’s Head brand.
An unopened Boar's Head liverwurst product tested positive for Listeria monocytogenes.
WGS is ongoing to determine if the listeria in the liverwurst is the same as the ill people.
Investigators are working to determine if other deli meat products are affected.
What You Should Do: Do not eat recalled deli products .
Throw them away or contact stores about returns.
People who are at higher risk for getting sick with Listeria should still avoid eating meats sliced at deli counters, unless heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving.
Clean your refrigerator, containers, and surfaces that may have touched sliced deli meats.
Call your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of Listeria and recently ate meats sliced at deli counters.
Businesses that received recalled meats should take extra precautions like cleaning and sanitizing and throwing away opened sliced meats and cheeses at delis.
Businesses should also follow USDA-FSIS best practices for controlling Listeria contamination in deli areas.
About Listeria: Listeria can cause severe illness (known as invasive listeriosis) when the bacteria spread beyond the gut to other parts of the body.
Pregnant people typically experience only fever, fatigue, and muscle aches.
However, Listeria infection during pregnancy can lead to miscarriage, stillbirth, premature delivery, or life-threating infection of the newborn.
People who are not pregnant may experience headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions, in addition to fever and muscle aches.
Symptoms of severe illness usually start 1 to 4 weeks after eating contaminated food with Listeria but may start as early as the same day or as late as 70 days after.
If you have questions about cases in a particular state, please call that state's health department.
Thank you, CDC Media Support Branch 404-639-3286 Media@cdc.gov RELATED PAGES Releases More Cases and Additional Death Reported in Listeria Outbreak Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis CDC Data Show Improvements in Youth Mental Health but Need for Safer and More Supportive Schools CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers CDC Updates Dog Importation Process VIEW ALL CDC Newsroom ### U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
CDC Confirms Three Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Newsroom CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a comidas de fettuccine Alfredo con pollo ENGLISH (US) DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 20 de junio del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una alerta sobre la seguridad de los alimentos acerca de un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Listeria:  Puntos clave: Diecisiete personas de 13 estados se han enfermado con la misma cepa de Listeria que se ha vinculado a algunas comidas de fettuccine Alfredo con pollo de FreshRealm.
Dieciséis personas han sido hospitalizadas y se han notificado tres muertes.
La enfermedad asociada a un embarazo causó una muerte fetal.
Las muertes se notificaron en Illinois, Michigan y Texas.
Los casos de enfermedad comenzaron entre el 24 de julio del 2024 y el 10 de mayo del 2025.
FreshRealm retiró del mercado las comidas de fettuccine Alfredo con pollo el 17 de junio del 2025.
Estos productos se vendieron en Kroger y Walmart bajo las marcas Marketside y Home Chef en la sección de productos refrigerados de esos supermercados.
Esto no incluye las comidas congeladas.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma los alimentos retirados del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Limpie su refrigerador, los recipientes y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los alimentos retirados del mercado.
La Listeria puede sobrevivir en el refrigerador y propagarse fácilmente a otros alimentos y superficies.
Comuníquese con un proveedor de atención médica de inmediato si tiene síntomas después de comer los alimentos retirados del mercado.
Síntomas de la infección por Listeria: La Listeria es especialmente dañina para las personas de 65 años o más, las mujeres embarazadas o las personas que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado.
Esto se debe a que es más probable que la Listeria se propague más allá del intestino a otras partes del cuerpo, provocando una enfermedad grave conocida como listeriosis invasiva.
En las mujeres embarazadas, la Listeria puede causar pérdida del embarazo, nacimiento prematuro o una infección que puede poner en peligro la vida del recién nacido.
En las personas de 65 años o más o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado, la Listeria a menudo causa hospitalización y, a veces, la muerte.
Los síntomas por lo general comienzan dentro de las 2 semanas después de comer alimentos contaminados con Listeria, pero podrían aparecer tan pronto como el mismo día o incluso hasta 10 semanas después.
Las mujeres embarazadas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
Las personas que no están embarazadas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
También podrían tener dolor de cabeza, rigidez de cuello, confusión, pérdida del equilibrio o convulsiones.
Para obtener más información sobre la Listeria, vea la página web de la Listeria.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Si usted es miembro de los medios de comunicación, llene este formulario de pedido de comentarios para enviar su consulta a los CDC.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos El Comité Asesor sobre Vacunación de los CDC concluye su reunión con un comunicado conjunto El Comité Asesor sobre Prácticas de Vacunación de los CDC se reunirá el 25 y el 26 de junio Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a crema de pistacho Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a huevos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a crema de pistacho FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Listeria Infection (Listeriosis) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Listeria Outbreaks How It Spreads Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Care and Treatment VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Lab Testing Publications VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 31, 2025 Listeria Outbreak Linked to Meats Sliced at Delis FOOD SAFETY ALERT Investigation start date: July 19, 2024 Investigation status: Closed Recall issued: Yes This outbreak is over.
Even when there are no ongoing Listeria outbreaks, women who are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system should avoid deli meat or reheat it to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot to kill any germs.
FAST FACTS Cases: 61 Hospitalizations: 60 Deaths: 10 States: 19 Updates Locations Timeline What you should do For people who are generally healthy and not at higher risk of serious infection Do not eat recalled meats.
Throw them away or contact stores about returns.
Check your refrigerator for any recalled deli meats and throw them away or return them to the store.
Listeria can grow on foods kept in the refrigerator.
Clean your refrigerator, containers, and surfaces that may have touched recalled meats.
What people at higher risk should do Listeria is especially harmful if you are pregnant, are aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system due to certain medical conditions or treatments.
Other people can be infected with Listeria, but they rarely become seriously ill.
If you are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system: Avoid eating deli meat or reheat it to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot to kill any germs.
If you prefer, you can let it cool before eating it.
Take steps to prevent getting sick from Listeria.
Learn which foods are more likely to have Listeria and choose safer food options.
What businesses should do Always follow USDA-FSIS best practices for controlling Listeria contamination in deli areas.
Symptoms of Listeria Listeria is especially harmful to women who are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or with weakened immune systems.
This is because Listeria is more likely to spread beyond their gut to other parts of their body, resulting in a severe condition known as invasive listeriosis.
For women who are pregnant, Listeria can cause pregnancy loss, premature birth, or a life-threatening infection in newborns.
For people who are 65 years or older or who have a weakened immune system, Listeria often results in hospitalization and sometimes death.
Symptoms usually start within 2 weeks after eating food contaminated with Listeria but may start as early as the same day or as late as 10 weeks after.
Pregnant women: Fever, muscle aches, and tiredness.
Your illness may be mild, but Listeria can cause pregnancy loss or premature birth.
It can also cause serious illness or death in newborns.
Other people may have: Headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions, in addition to fever, muscle aches, and tiredness.
For more information about Listeria, see the About Listeria Infection page.
See also FSIS Recall Release: Boar's Head Provisions Co.
Recalls Ready-to-Eat Liverwurst and Other Deli Meat Products Due to Possible Listeria Contamination CDC: Listeria (Listeriosis) Homepage People at Risk Choose Safer Foods ON THIS PAGE What you should do What people at higher risk should do What businesses should do Symptoms of Listeria See also SOURCES PRINT SHARE Listeria Infection Listeria infection is caused by eating food contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes bacteria.
The infection can be very serious for some groups of people.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades.
CDC 24/7: Salvamos vidas.
Protegemos a la gente.
Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades Buscar Los CDC actualizan el proceso para la importación de perros English (US) Imprimir Declaración para los medios de comunicación Para su publicación inmediata: lunes 22 de julio de 2024 Contacto: Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 Los CDC han clarificado y simplificado el proceso para traer perros a los Estados Unidos desde países con bajo riesgo o sin ningún riesgo de rabia canina.
Los CDC tienen el objetivo de proteger la salud de las comunidades y los animales en los Estados Unidos, y de prevenir la reintroducción de la rabia canina a este país.
Estas actualizaciones incorporan los comentarios recibidos del público, colaboradores del sector y varios países con respecto a las regulaciones sobre la importación de perros; además, clarifican y simplifican los procesos para quienes traen perros desde países con bajo riesgo o sin ningún riesgo de rabia canina.
Esta actualización también incluye un proceso para solicitud de exenciones para la industria de las aerolíneas.
Para proporcionar mayor flexibilidad con los requisitos para los perros provenientes de países con bajo riesgo o sin ningún riesgo de rabia canina, cuando la regulación entre en vigencia el 1.o de agosto del 2024 (a las 12:00 a.
hora del este), los perros que hayan pasado los seis meses previos solamente en países con bajo riesgo o sin ningún riesgo de rabia canina, podrán ingresar a los Estados Unidos con un comprobante de la presentación en línea del Formulario de los CDC para la importación de perros como documentación aceptable.
Este formulario se puede llenar el día del viaje y el comprobante se les puede mostrar a los funcionarios de las aerolíneas y de la frontera como copia impresa o en un teléfono.
El comprobante será válido para viajes a los Estados Unidos durante seis meses desde la fecha de emisión, incluidas múltiples entradas.
Todos los perros que ingresen a los Estados Unidos deberán tener un microchip y tener más de seis meses de edad.
Se mantendrán vigentes las exigencias de otros documentos y demás requisitos para los perros provenientes de países con alto riesgo de rabia.
Para obtener más información y actualizaciones, visite la página 
### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS DE LOS EE.
Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Reducing Exposure for Workers to Avian Influenza A Viruses Interim guidance for employers For Everyone MAY 6, 2025 KEY POINTS Employers should take steps to reduce workers' exposure to avian influenza A viruses from sick animals or contaminated environments.
To protect workers who might be exposed, employers should update or develop a workplace health and safety plan.
Humans can be infected with H5N1, and other avian influenza A viruses, when enough virus gets into a person's eyes, nose, or mouth, or is inhaled.
TABLE OF CONTENTS | REDUCING EXPOSURE IN THE WORKPLACE Employers: Engineering Controls Employers: Administrative Controls Employers: Personal Protective Equipment Employers: Selecting PPE Employers: Training Materials Information for Workers Exposed to H5N1 Bird Flu Take steps to reduce workers' exposure Employers should take steps to reduce workers' exposure to avian influenza A viruses from sick animals or contaminated environments.
Reducing exposure to avian influenza A viruses helps both public health and biosecurity – protecting people and animals from illness caused by these viruses, such as H5N1 bird flu.
Information for workers Find more information for workers about exposures and how to protect yourself.
Workers may be exposed in two main ways.
Working with animals confirmed or potentially infected with avian influenza A viruses.
Working with materials, including raw milk, that are contaminated or potentially contaminated with avian influenza A viruses.
Poultry and dairy workers are most likely to be exposed.
Other types of workers may also be at risk for exposure.
KEEP READING Bird Flu: Causes and How It Spreads Develop a health and safety plan We encourage using a health and safety committee that includes representatives from both management and workers to develop the plan.
OSHA has helpful guidance and consultation on developing a workplace health and safety plan .
Your local agriculture extension office may also have resources available.
Notice Familiarize yourself with any OSHA requirements that may apply to you.
If you operate in a state regulated by a state OSHA plan , familiarize yourself with any additional requirements that may apply.
See also: OSHA Help for Employers OSHA also has information about avian influenza prevention and control .
USDA offers H5N1 bird flu outbreak response and support .
Conduct a site-specific hazard assessment Identify potential exposures First, conduct a site-specific hazard assessment of your farm to identify potential exposures to avian influenza A viruses based on work tasks and settings.
Identify workplace hazards and prioritize controls using these resources: Dairy - Hazard Assessment Worksheet for Dairy Facilities Poultry - Protecting Poultry Workers from Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) Determine potential exposure level After completing a site-specific hazard assessment, use the exposure levels table below to determine the potential exposure level (low, medium, or high) for work tasks and settings.
Links in the table will take you to information on the appropriate type(s) of controls that can be used to reduce exposure to avian influenza A viruses.
View exposure levels Assess implementation of controls and PPE The recommended actions are based on the hierarchy of controls.
This model identifies a preferred order of actions to best control hazardous workplace exposures.
Engineering controls Reduce or prevent hazards from coming into contact with workers.
Are more effective than other options because they don't require ongoing efforts by workers and their supervisors.
Administrative controls Establish work practices that reduce the duration, frequency, or intensity of exposure to hazards.
Requires significant and ongoing effort by workers and their supervisors.
Personal protective equipment (PPE) Equipment worn to minimize exposure to hazards.
To be most effective, PPE must be put on and taken off correctly and in a specific order.
Requires significant and ongoing effort by workers and their supervisors.
Employers are encouraged to assess the feasibility of controls and PPE on their farm.
Consider if the recommended controls and PPE can be used without introducing new risks.
You will likely need to combine controls and PPE in order to provide the appropriate level of protection necessary to prevent infection (e.g., using a combination of engineering controls, administrative controls, and PPE).
If you cannot implement a specific control or a piece of the PPE recommendations, you should ensure the combination of controls used provide the protection necessary to prevent infection.
Determine exposure level Type of controls and PPE that can be used depend on the exposure level of the setting or task.A These recommendations are based on our current understanding of exposure.
Facilities and settings include locations such as farms, zoos, and other wildlife facilities.
Low exposure Work tasks and setting No contact with animals or animal secretions, regardless of cases on the farm or regional cases Contact with animals, with no confirmed cases in the regionB Contact with animals at zoos or other wild animal facilitiesC without confirmed or potentially infected animals, regardless of infected animals in the region Recommendations Administrative controls Medium exposure Work tasks and setting Contact with healthy non-lactating animals on a dairy farm that has animals confirmed or potentially infected Contact with animals from a farm without confirmed or potentially infected animals, but when there are confirmed or potentially infected animals in the regionB Contact with healthy birds and mammals at a zoo or other wild animal facilityC that has animals confirmed or potentially infected Recommendations Engineering controls Administrative controls Medium exposure PPE High exposure Work tasks and setting Contact with alive or dead animals confirmed or potentially infected (e.g., poultry culling operations, work in sick pens, or work with sick animals in zoos or other wild animal facilitiesC)D Contact with raw milk, other secretions, udders, or viscera from a farm with confirmed or potentially infected animals (e.g., work in milking parlor, raw milk processing, some slaughterhouse work) Recommendations Engineering controls Administrative controls High exposure PPE Other types of workers that may be exposed Other livestock workers Animal health responders including: Poultry culling Handling sick or dead wild animals Backyard bird flock owners Dairy laboratory workers Food processing workers handling raw milk and other confirmed or potentially contaminated materials Public health responders Slaughterhouse workers performing certain tasks on lactating dairy cattle including: Unloading or handling live lactating dairy cattle for slaughter, including working in holding pens and tasks involved with ante-mortem inspection Post-mortem processes including the post-mortem inspection, handling, and transporting of viscera Removing and transporting udders from dairy cattle for further processing or rendering Veterinarians and veterinary staff Zoo, other wild animal facility, or other animal farm workers, such as: Sanctuary workers Aquarium workers Wildlife rehabilitators Fur farm workers Keep in mind CDC provides separate recommendations to prevent the spread of flu between pigs and people, as well as monitoring and treatment of variant virus infections elsewhere.
ON THIS PAGE Take steps to reduce workers' exposure Conduct a site-specific hazard assessment Determine exposure level Employers: Engineering Controls SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a huevos ENGLISH (US) DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 9 de junio del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado un aviso de investigación sobre un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella:  Puntos clave: Setenta y nueve personas en 7 estados se han enfermado con la misma cepa del brote de Salmonella que se ha vinculado a huevos.
Veintiuna personas han sido hospitalizadas y no se han notificado muertes.
El 6 de junio del 2025, la empresa August Egg Company retiró del mercado estos huevos.
Lea el aviso de retiro del mercado para ver la lista de las marcas.
Estos huevos se vendieron a restaurantes y minoristas en Arizona, California, Illinois, Indiana, Nebraska, Nuevo México, Nevada, Washington y Wyoming.
Este retiro del mercado incluye todas las variedades de huevos de gallina, incluso orgánicos, huevos de color marrón de gallinas no enjauladas y huevos enriquecidos con omega 3.
Si tiene cualquiera de estos productos retirados del mercado en su casa o negocio, bótelos o devuélvalos a la tienda.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma ningún tipo de huevo retirado del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Lave los artículos y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los huevos retirados del mercado usando agua jabonosa caliente o un lavaplatos automático.
Llame a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene algún síntoma grave de infección por Salmonella.
Lo que deben hacer los negocios: No vendan ni sirvan huevos retirados del mercado.
Laven y desinfecten los artículos y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los huevos retirados del mercado.
Acerca de la Salmonella: La mayoría de las personas con infección por Salmonella presentan diarrea, fiebre y cólicos estomacales 6 horas a 6 días después de haber estado expuestas a las bacterias.
La enfermedad generalmente dura de 4 a 7 días y la mayoría de las personas se recuperan sin tratamiento.
En algunas personas la enfermedad puede ser tan grave que necesitan ser hospitalizadas.
Los niños menores de 5 años, los adultos de 65 años o mayores y las personas con el sistema inmunitario debilitado tienen más probabilidades de enfermarse gravemente.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a comidas de fettuccine Alfredo con pollo Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a crema de pistacho Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos Comunicado del Centro Nacional para la Prevención y el Control de Lesiones de los CDC sobre los datos provisionales de muertes por sobredosis en el 2024 VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All About Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases For Everyone DEC.
16, 2024 AT A GLANCE The Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED) works to protect the public from diseases spread through food, water, and the environment.
Our mission DFWED's mission is to improve public health nationally and internationally through the prevention and control of disease, disability, and death caused by foodborne, waterborne, and environmentally transmitted infections.
Priorities Prevent diseases caused by contaminated food, water, animal contact and fungi.
Slow the development and spread of antimicrobial resistance in fungi and bacteria.
Use surveillance systems to track foodborne, waterborne, and animal contact diseases.
Work with global health partners to fight foodborne, waterborne, and fungal diseases.
Why it matters Changes in society, technology, our environment, and microorganisms themselves are affecting the occurrence and complexity of foodborne, waterborne, and fungal diseases.
In the 1980s, E.
coli O157 first emerged and spread to contaminate a growing variety of foods.
Multidrug-resistant Salmonella are a growing challenge to human and animal health.
Waterborne diseases like cholera and typhoid, although virtually nonexistent in the United States, cause needless disability and death globally.
Fungal infections are common among immunocompromised patients and are difficult to diagnose and treat.
Infections of animals can spread to humans by direct contact and by less obvious routes.
Microbial adaptation is resulting in new—or previously unrecognized—pathogens.
Our work We strive to better understand emerging, reemerging, drug-resistant, bacterial, parasitic, and fungal pathogens and how they make people sick.
We do this with health departments, academic researchers, federal regulatory agencies, and partners around the world.
We use this information to improve prevention, inform policy, and reduce health inequities.
Track foodborne illnesses to identify trends, risk factors, new drug resistance, and food sources.
Detect, investigate, and control foodborne outbreaks.
Identify new ways to reduce diarrheal diseases related to global water, sanitation, and hygiene.
Keep drinking water, swimming pools, lakes, and other water sources safe.
Detect, prevent, and control domestic and global fungal threats.
Leadership Bio Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases Megin Nichols, DVM, MPH, DACVPM, Acting Director Megin Nichols, DVM, MPH, DACVPM, is the director of the Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Why it matters Our work Leadership Bio RELATED PAGES Divisions and Offices About DGMH About DHCPP About DHQP About DIDRI About DPDM VIEW ALL NCEZID About DHCPP SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Swine / Variant Influenza EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Swine/Variant Flu Risk Factors Prevention Treatment Research on Zoonotic (Animal Origin) Influenza (Flu) Viruses of Public Health Concern News and Spotlights Variant Influenza Viruses in Humans VIEW ALL Public Health Variant Influenza: Information for Health Professionals and Laboratorians VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting | Flu Burden View All Variant Influenza: Information for Health Professionals and Laboratorians FEB.
22, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC has guidance available on variant influenza viruses for clinicians, laboratorians, and epidemiologists.
Links to these guidance documents are included below.
Guidance and recommendations Interim Guidance for Clinicians on Human Infections with Variant Influenza Viruses Specimen collection Interim Guidance on Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspect Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus Infection Infection prevention and control Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease Infection Prevention and Control Strategies for Seasonal Influenza in Healthcare Settings Case definitions Interim Guidance on Case Definitions for Investigations of Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus Cases Resources CDC Expert Commentary on Medscape–CDC's James Kile, DVM, MPH details guidance for swine influenza virus infection in humans in this Medscape Expert Commentary.
MMWR, October 26, 2018: Influenza A(H3N2) Variant Virus Outbreak at Three Fairs — Maryland, 2017 MMWR, September 27, 2012: Influenza A (H3N2) Variant Virus-Related Hospitalizations – Ohio, 2012.
MMWR, August 17, 2012: Evaluation of Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests for Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus and Updated Case Count — United States, 2012.
Balish A, Garten R, Klimov A, Villanueva J.
Analytical detection of influenza A(H3N2)v and other A variant viruses from the USA by rapid influenza diagnostic tests.
Influenza Other Respi Viruses.
2012 Sep 18.
doi: 10.1111/irv.12017.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Swine / Variant Influenza EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Swine/Variant Flu Risk Factors Prevention Treatment Research on Zoonotic (Animal Origin) Influenza (Flu) Viruses of Public Health Concern News and Spotlights Variant Influenza Viruses in Humans VIEW ALL Public Health Variant Influenza: Information for Health Professionals and Laboratorians VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting | Flu Burden View All Take Action to Prevent the Spread of Flu Between Pigs and People Prevention For Everyone JULY 2, 2024 ABOUT Influenza A viruses circulate among many different animals.
Influenza A viruses that circulate among pigs are called swine influenza A viruses.
These viruses are different from influenza A viruses that spread among people and different from avian influenza A viruses.
While rare, influenza A viruses--including seasonal human A viruses and swine influenza A viruses--can spread from pigs to people and from people to pigs.
When an influenza A virus that normally infects pigs is found in people, it is called a 'variant influenza' virus infection.
When people get variant flu, it's usually after contact with infected pigs or surfaces or environments contaminated with swine influenza A virus, such as a swine barn.
These infections have occurred in different settings, including agricultural fairs.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends people take the following actions to help prevent the spread of influenza A viruses between certain animals (including pigs) and people.
While the content of this page focuses on pigs, similar precautions are recommended around poultry and dairy cows, which can carry and spread different influenza viruses called avian influenza A viruses.
Take Preventive Actions People at increased risk for severe influenza complications should avoid exposure to pigs.
Don't eat, drink or put anything in your mouth in areas with pigs.
Don't take toys, pacifiers, cups, baby bottles, strollers, or similar items into areas with pigs.
Wash your hands with soap and running water before and after exposure to pigs outside or inside a swine barn.
If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand rub.
To further reduce the risk of infection, avoid or minimize contact with pigs in the pig barns and show arenas.
Where possible, avoid direct contact with pigs that are known or suspected to be sick.
If you must come in contact with pigs that may be ill, then wear personal protective equipment (PPE).
This includes protective clothing, gloves, and a well-fitting mask that covers your mouth and nose.
Parents and caregivers should review considerations for specific groups of people when selecting a respirator or mask for children.
If you have a pig, watch for signs of illness (like loss of appetite, fever, tiredness, eye redness, discomfort, cough, or runny nose) If you suspect your pig is sick, call a veterinarian.
If sick pigs are in an exhibition area, remove them right away.
If possible, avoid close contact with sick pigs.
Avoid contact with pigs if you have flu symptoms.
Wait to have contact with pigs until 7 days after your illness started or until you have been without fever for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications, whichever is longer.
If you must have contact with pigs while you are sick, take the preventive actions listed above.
Like everyone else, people who care for pigs should get a seasonal flu vaccine every flu season.
Although a seasonal flu vaccine probably will not protect people against infection with variant influenza A viruses (because swine influenza A viruses are substantially different from seasonal influenza A viruses that infect people), vaccination is important to reduce the risk of spreading human seasonal influenza A viruses to other people and to pigs.
Seasonal flu vaccination might also decrease the potential for people or pigs to become infected with human influenza A viruses and influenza A viruses from pigs at the same time.
People at Higher Risk Anyone who is at higher risk of serious flu complications who plans to attend an event or setting where pigs will be present, such as an agricultural fair, should avoid pigs and swine barns.
If people at higher risk cannot avoid exposure to pigs, they should wear a well-fitting mask that covers the nose and mouth (e.g., an N95 respirator or KN95 respirator if available, or if not available, a surgical mask) to reduce the risk of exposure to influenza viruses from pigs.
People at higher risk of serious flu complications who develop flu symptoms should call a health care provider.
Tell them about your risk factor and any exposure to pigs or swine barns you've had recently.
Human seasonal flu vaccines will not protect against influenza A viruses that commonly spread in pigs, but prescription influenza antiviral drugs can treat infections with these viruses in people when treatment is started shortly after symptoms begin.
Recommendations for Fair Exhibitors CDC guidance for people exhibiting animals including pigs, poultry, waterfowl, and cattle is available at Key Facts for People Exhibiting Pigs at Fairs.
Resources Print Materials Flu Can Spread Between Pigs and People (English) Download Flu Can Spread Between Pigs and People (Spanish) Download Take Action to Prevent the Spread of Flu Between People and Pigs Download Educational Poster Download Compendium of Measures to Prevent Disease Associated with Animals in Public Settings, 2017 Reduce Your Risk (English) Reduce Your Risk (Spanish) More Information Case counts of human infections with variant influenza viruses Medscape Commentary: CDC Guidance for Swine Influenza Virus Infection Infectious Disease News: 'Common-Sense' precautions reduce risk for variant flu at fairs CSTE: Flu Education Among Youth in Agriculture Resource Repository ON THIS PAGE Take Preventive Actions People at Higher Risk Recommendations for Fair Exhibitors Resources RELATED PAGES Swine/Variant Flu Risk Factors Treatment Research on Zoonotic (Animal Origin) Influenza (Flu) Viruses of Public Health Concern News and Spotlights VIEW ALL Swine Flu Treatment SOURCES PRINT SHARE Swine Flu Swine influenza is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Comunicado del Centro Nacional para la Prevención y el Control de Lesiones de los CDC sobre los datos provisionales de muertes por sobredosis en el 2024 DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 14 de mayo del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los datos provisionales publicados hoy por el Sistema Nacional de Estadísticas Vitales de los CDC muestran una notable disminución de casi un 27 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas previstas en el 2024, en comparación con los datos del 2023 en promedio; esta disminución indica que se salvaron más de 81 vidas cada día.
Desde que el presidente Trump declaró la crisis de opioides una emergencia de salud pública en el 2017, el apoyo del Congreso ha permitido que los CDC amplíen los sistemas de datos cruciales y fortalezcan la capacidad de prevención de sobredosis en todos los estados.
Estas inversiones nos han empoderado para recolectar, analizar y compartir rápidamente datos accionables, lo que ha permitido que las comunidades entiendan mejor los factores específicos que provocan las sobredosis en su área y adapten las estrategias de prevención para satisfacer sus necesidades particulares locales.
Desde fines del 2023, las muertes por sobredosis han disminuido de manera constante cada mes; esta es una señal firme de que las intervenciones de salud pública están marcando una diferencia y teniendo un impacto significativo.
A pesar de estas mejoras en general, las sobredosis siguen siendo la causa principal de muerte de personas de 18 a 44 años en los Estados Unidos, lo que destaca la necesidad de esfuerzos continuos para mantener este progreso.
A través de financiación sostenida para apoyar las actividades de prevención y vigilancia, como las del programa Datos de Sobredosis para la Acción, seguiremos avanzando hacia un futuro en el que las personas en los Estados Unidos ya no pierdan la vida a causa de sobredosis de drogas.
Los CDC siguen firmes en su compromiso para prevenir los trastornos por consumo de sustancias antes de que comiencen, ampliar el acceso a tratamiento y fortalecer las trayectorias para la recuperación, a fin de construir un futuro más saludable para todas las personas en los Estados Unidos.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a huevos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos Los CDC anuncian un brote de Salmonella vinculado a las aves de corral domésticas Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC anuncian un brote de Salmonella vinculado a las aves de corral domésticas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 11, 2024 About Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria AT A GLANCE The Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria (DPDM) works to save and improve lives by controlling and preventing parasitic diseases in the United States and around the world.
Our mission DPDM's mission is to protect the health of people around the world from parasitic diseases, including malaria, through evidence-based public health action.
Priorities DPDM’s vision is a world free from parasitic disease.
To support this vision, we focus on three strategic priority goals: Ensure prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of parasitic diseases in the United States Reduce the global burden of malaria Reduce the global burden of priority neglected tropical diseases Why it matters Parasitic diseases cause devastating health and economic effects for hundreds of millions of people in the United States and around the world.
These diseases can be spread from insects or animals, through blood or organ donations, from mother to baby, or through contaminated food or water.
Globally, malaria, neglected tropical diseases, and other parasites lead to serious illness, disability, and death.
Our work We focus on neglected tropical diseases that can be controlled through mass drug administration or other simple, low-cost interventions.
Monitor rates of parasitic diseases to track trends and detect potential outbreaks in the United States Conduct studies to assess the impact of parasitic diseases and understand risk factors Develop recommendations to prevent and control parasitic diseases Provide consultations to healthcare providers on diagnosis and treatment of parasitic infections Conduct confirmatory laboratory testing and diagnostic training Release life-saving treatments that are not commercially available Conduct research to improve programs and epidemiologic, laboratory, and vector control tools Leadership Bio Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Simon Agolory, MD, Director CAPT Simon Agolory, MD, serves as the Director for the Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Why it matters Our work Leadership Bio RELATED PAGES Divisions and Offices About DFWED About DHCPP About DHQP About DIDRI About DVBD VIEW ALL NCEZID About DVBD SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 9, 2024 About Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation AT A GLANCE The Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation (DIDRI) works to prepare the nation for infectious disease threats.
Our mission DIDRI strengthens public health capacity across the nation to prevent infectious diseases and optimize health outcomes for all.
DIDRI achieves this mission by partnering with state, tribal, local, and territorial health departments; growing a highly skilled and adaptive public health workforce; utilizing innovative approaches to detect, prevent, and control infectious diseases; and providing resources to improve health outcomes and equity.
Priorities Enhance state, tribal, local, and territorial capacity building in epidemiology, laboratory, and health information systems.
Advance implementation of pathogen genomic sequencing technologies and bioinformatics to find, track, and stop infectious disease threats.
Expand the use of wastewater surveillance to identify outbreaks, direct prevention efforts to where they are most needed, and provide insight into disease spread.
Improve health outcomes and prevention infectious diseases among all people in the Arctic and sub-Arctic region, with a focus on indigenous populations.
Why it matters DIDRI works to ensure the public health system can detect and respond to infectious disease threats, with a special focus on emerging pathogens.
Our focus on scientific innovation, data modernization, and partnerships helps ensure that the nation has the cutting-edge technology, expertise, and infrastructure in place to protect communities from emerging infectious diseases.
Our work We build and strengthen public health capacity by enhancing the ability of CDC and its public health partners to prepare for, prevent, and respond to infectious diseases through several key programs: Advanced Molecular Detection integrates next generation genomic sequencing technologies with bioinformatics and epidemiology expertise across CDC and the nation to help us find, track, and stop disease-causing pathogens.
Arctic Investigations Program improves health outcomes and prevention infectious diseases among all people in the Arctic and sub-Arctic region, with a focus on indigenous populations.
The Emerging Infections Program translates surveillance and research activities into informed policy and public health practice to address emerging infections.
The Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity program enhances capacity building in epidemiology, laboratory, and health information systems for states and jurisdictions through funding, workforce development and technical assistance.
Ferguson Emerging Infectious Diseases Fellowship Program supports public health research and professional development in infectious diseases and health disparities and focuses on increasing knowledge and interest in public health research careers among racial and ethnic minority students.
National Wastewater Surveillance System identifies outbreak trends in wastewater, directs prevention efforts to where they are most needed, and provide additional insight into disease spread that complements other public health surveillance data.
Leadership Margaret (Peggy) Honein, PhD, MPH Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation Margaret (Peggy) Honein, PhD, MPH, Director Margaret (Peggy) Honein, PhD, MPH, serves as the director of the Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Why it matters Our work RELATED PAGES Divisions and Offices About DFWED About DHCPP About DHQP About DPDM About DVBD VIEW ALL NCEZID About DPDM SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Evaluation of Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests for Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus and Updated Case Count — United States, 2012 Weekly August 17, 2012 / 61(32);619-621 On August 10, 2012, this report was posted as an MMWR Early Release on the MMWR website (
Previous reports have described cases of influenza A (H3N2) variant (H3N2v) virus* infection with the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 M gene detected in the United States during July 2011–July 2012 (1–3).
This report provides 1) an update on the number of reported cases of H3N2v infections from July 12 to August 9, 2012, in the United States, 2) an updated results interpretation for the CDC Flu Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) Dx Panel for A(H3N2)v for public health laboratories, and 3) an evaluation of rapid influenza diagnostic tests for the detection of H3N2v viruses.
From July 12 to August 9, a total of 153 cases of H3N2v infections were reported in Indiana (120 cases), Ohio (31), Hawaii (one), and Illinois (one).
The median age of patients was 7 years.
Two persons were hospitalized as a result of their illness; no deaths occurred.
The patient in Hawaii was exposed to swine on the job, and no additional cases were found in Hawaii.
The 152 patients reported from Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio resided in 27 counties; all reported direct or indirect exposure to swine, the majority at agricultural fairs.
H3N2v viruses can be detected by qualified U.S.
public health laboratories using the CDC Flu rRT-PCR Dx Panel.
Initially, if specimens tested positive for influenza A, H3, and pandemic influenza A markers and negative for H1 and pandemic H1 markers, they were reported as inconclusive until confirmed as influenza A (H3N2)v at the CDC laboratory (1).
On August 7, CDC updated the results interpretation of the CDC Flu rRT-PCR Dx Panel for H3N2v for public health laboratories.
Specimens with these findings may now be reported as "presumptive positive for influenza A (H3N2)v virus" and, for the ongoing investigations, cases with presumptive-positive test results at the state or local public health laboratory will now be classified as confirmed, as are those cases confirmed at CDC.
The CDC Flu rRT-PCR Dx Panel is available in public health laboratories but is not a point-of-care test available to clinicians.
Rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) frequently are used for the diagnosis of influenza infection in clinical settings, and the recent outbreaks of H3N2v virus (2,3) have highlighted the need to evaluate commercially available, widely used RIDTs for their ability to detect H3N2v viruses.
As an initial assessment, CDC conducted an evaluation of seven FDA-cleared RIDTs with seven H3N2v viruses (Table 1).
Five 10-fold dilutions in physiological saline of each virus grown in Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells were tested with all of the RIDTs in duplicate.
Tests with BinaxNOW, Directigen, FluAlert, QuickVue, and Sofia were performed according to the procedures in the kit inserts for nasal washes or aspirates.
Xpect tests were performed according to their procedure for nasal washes and swab specimens transported in liquid media.
For the Veritor test, 100 µL of diluted specimen was added directly to the reagent tube.
Positive and negative controls contained in each RIDT were run before testing the viruses in the study to verify performance of each assay lot, with the exception of FluAlert, which does not provide controls.
Only four of seven RIDTs in this study (Directigen, Sofia, Veritor, and Xpect) detected all influenza A (H3N2)v viruses (Table 2).
BinaxNOW detected five of seven, and QuickVue detected three of seven.
FluAlert detected only one of seven.
Reported by Shawn Richards, Indiana State Dept of Health.
Craig Conover, MD, Illinois Dept of Public Health.
Mary DiOrio, MD, Ohio Dept of Health.
Sarah Park, MD, Hawaii Dept of Health.
Amanda Balish, MPH, Rebecca Garten, PhD, Alexander Klimov, PhD, Julie Villanueva, PhD, Lynnette Brammer, MPH, Scott Epperson, MPH, Lenee Blanton, MPH, Matt Biggerstaff, MPH, Michael Jhung, MD, Lyn Finelli, PhD, Joseph Bresee, MD, Influenza Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Lynnette Brammer, lbrammer@cdc.gov, 404-639-3747.
Editorial Note The H3N2v viruses identified since July 12, 2012, are similar to the 13 H3N2v viruses identified during July 2011–April 2012 (1); all sequenced viruses had the M gene from the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 virus.
As of August 9, all H3N2v patients for whom contact information was available reported contact with swine or attended an agricultural fair where swine were present.
During 2011, evidence of limited human-to-human transmission of H3N2v was observed in some cases, and human-to-human transmission might occur in the current outbreak.
Enhanced surveillance for influenza H3N2v virus infection is indicated, especially in regions and states with confirmed H3N2v cases.
The initial goal of enhanced surveillance is to detect the source and geographic spread of these viruses, but once cases are detected, particular emphasis should be placed on detection of ongoing transmission within the community through investigation of close contacts of patients with confirmed cases.
In addition, surveillance in hospitals will be important to determine whether severe illnesses are occurring as a result of H3N2v infections.
The predominance of children among persons with confirmed H3N2v infections is consistent with serologic studies that found children less likely to have cross-protective antibodies than adults (4).
However, confirmation of cases in adults highlights the fact that persons of any age can be infected.
Persons with increased risk for complications who develop influenza-like illness should see their health-care provider promptly to determine whether treatment with antiviral medications is warranted.
Clinicians should consider antiviral treatment with oral oseltamivir or inhaled zanamivir in patients with suspected or confirmed H3N2v infection.
Antiviral treatment is most effective when started as soon as possible after influenza illness onset (5).
The sensitivity of RIDTs to detect seasonal influenza viruses compared with virus isolation or rRT-PCR varies among commercial kits but has been shown to be low in some reports (6–9).
In this evaluation of seven RIDTs, the ability to detect H3N2v virus varied substantially among the tests.
This evaluation emphasizes the fact that a negative RIDT result should not be considered as conclusive evidence of lack of infection with influenza A (H3N2)v.
More data are needed on the clinical performance of all RIDTs in detecting H3N2v virus in various respiratory specimens.
Results from RIDTs, both positive and negative, always should be interpreted in the broader context of the circulating influenza strains present in the area, level of clinical suspicion, severity of illness, and risk for complications in a patient with suspected infection.
Clinicians should minimize the occurrence of false RIDT results by strictly following the manufacturer's instructions, collecting specimens soon after onset of influenza-like illness (ideally within the first 72 hours), and confirming RIDT results by sending a specimen to a public health laboratory (10).
Additional CDC guidance on interpretation of RIDTs for testing of patients with suspected H3N2v infection is available at 
Specimens from patients with influenza-like illness in whom H3N2v is suspected should be sent to public health laboratories for additional diagnostic testing.
Public health laboratories are requested to continue to contact the CDC Influenza Division immediately when they identify these viruses to coordinate transfer of the specimen to CDC for additional testing.
References Lindstrom S, Garten R, Balish A, et al.
Human infections with novel reassortant influenza A(H3N2)v viruses, United States, 2011.
Emerg Infect Dis 2012;18:834–7.
Update: influenza A (H3N2)v transmission and guidelines—five states, 2011.
MMWR 2012;60:1741–4.
Notes from the field: outbreak of influenza A (H3N2) virus among persons and swine at a county fair—Indiana, July 2012.
MMWR 2012;61:561.
Antibodies cross-reactive to influenza A (H3N2) variant virus and impact of 2010–11 seasonal influenza vaccine on cross-reactive antibodies—United States.
MMWR 2012;61:237–41.
Antiviral agents for the treatment and chemoprophylaxis of influenza: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 2011;60(No.
Hurt AC, Alexander R, Hibbert J, Deed N, Barr IG.
Performance of six influenza rapid tests in detecting human influenza in clinical specimens.
J Clin Virol 2007;39:132–5.
Faix DJ, Sherman SS, Waterman SH.
Rapid-test sensitivity for novel swine-origin influenza A (H1N1) virus in humans.
N Engl J Med 2009;361:728–9.
Ginocchio CC, Zhang F, Manji R, et al.
Evaluation of multiple test methods for the detection of the novel 2009 influenza A (H1N1) during the New York City outbreak.
J Clin Virol 2009;45:191–5.
Uyeki TM, Prasad R, Vukotich C, et al.
Low sensitivity of rapid diagnostic test for influenza.
Clin Infect Dis 2009;48:e89–92.
Guidance for clinicians on the use of rapid influenza diagnostic tests.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2011.
Available at 
Accessed August 9, 2012.
* Influenza viruses that circulate in swine are called swine influenza viruses when isolated from swine, but are called variant viruses when isolated from humans.
A variant virus (human isolate) might or might not have the M gene from the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 virus, along with other genetic changes.
Seasonal influenza A (H3N2) viruses that circulate worldwide in the human population have significant antigenic and genetic differences from influenza A (H3N2) viruses circulating in swine.
Additional information is available at 
What is known on this topic?
From July 2011 to April 2012, 13 cases of influenza A (H3N2)v virus infection in humans were reported.
In July 2012, four new cases were reported from Indiana, all in persons who had contact with swine at a county fair.
What is added by this report?
From July 12 to August 9, 2012, a total of 153 cases of H3N2v virus infection were reported in four states (Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio); all patients for whom such information was available reported direct or indirect contact with swine.
Testing of the sensitivity of rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) for detection of influenza A (H3N2)v virus produced mixed results regarding the detection capabilities of the individual tests.
What are the implications for public health?
With the substantial increase in the number of cases of H3N2v virus infection during July–August, enhanced surveillance for detection of these cases is indicated.
Health-care workers also should note that the sensitivity of RIDTs to detect H3N2v virus infection varies, and a negative RIDT should not be considered evidence of lack of infection with influenza A (H3N2)v.
Evaluation of seven FDA-cleared RIDTs for the ability to detect H3N2v viral antigens — CDC, United States, 2012 RIDT (manufacturer) Abbreviated name Approved specimens* Analyzer for interpretation BinaxNOW Influenza A&B (Alere) BinaxNOW NP swab Nasal wash/aspirate/swab No Directigen EZ Flu A+B (Becton-Dickinson) Directigen NP wash/aspirate/swab Throat swab No SAS FluAlert A&B (SA Scientific) FluAlert Nasal wash/aspirate No QuickVue Influenza A+B Test (Quidel) QuickVue NP swab Nasal wash/aspirate/swab No Sofia Influenza A+B (Quidel) Sofia NP aspirate/swab/wash Nasal wash Required BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B (Becton Dickinson) Veritor NP swab/nasal swab Required Xpect Flu A&B (Remel) Xpect Nasal wash/swab Throat swab No Abbreviations: FDA = Food and Drug Administration; RIDTs = rapid influenza diagnostic tests; NP = nasopharyngeal.
* Approved respiratory specimens according to manufacturer's package insert.
Test performance has only been demonstrated for these specimen types.
Number of 10-fold virus dilutions (maximum = five) detected by seven FDA-cleared RIDTs, by H3N2v strain designation — CDC, United States, 2012 Subtype Strain designation TCID50/mL RIDT BinaxNOW Directigen FluAlert QuickVue Sofia Veritor Xpect H3N2v A/Kansas/13/2009 104.5 1 4 U U 2 4 4 H3N2v A/Pennsylvania/14/2010 104.5 2 4 U 2 2 4 3 H3N2v A/Minnesota/11/2010 104.5 U 3 U U 3 3 2 H3N2v A/Indiana/08/2011 106.0 1 3 U U 2 3 2 H3N2v A/Indiana/10/2011 104.0 U 3 U U 2 4 2 H3N2v A/West Virginia/06/2011 106.0 2 3 U 2 4 4 2 H3N2v A/Iowa/07/2011 104.5 2 4 1 1 3 4 3 Abbreviations: FDA = Food and Drug Administration; TCID50/mL = infectious titer of stock virus; RIDT = rapid influenza diagnostic test; U = undetected at any concentration tested.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza in Animals EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Influenza A in Animals News and Spotlights VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting | Flu Burden View All Considerations and Information for Fair Organizers to Help Prevent Influenza AUG.
2, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC keeps track of how many people get influenza (flu) caused by animal influenza A viruses throughout the year, including during exhibition season.
As you organize your local or state agricultural fair or any other livestock exhibitions, be aware of important information to help protect visitors and livestock (e.g.
pigs, poultry, cattle).
This information can help prevent illnesses in public settings, like agricultural fairs, where people and animals from many places are in close contact.
Background Livestock fairs and shows are an important learning opportunity for people of all ages interested in agriculture.
Animals commonly exhibited at agricultural fairs and shows, including pigs, poultry (e.g., chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese), and cattle, can carry and spread influenza A viruses that are different from human seasonal influenza A viruses.
Pigs can be infected with swine influenza A viruses, and poultry can be infected with avian influenza A viruses.
In March 2024, avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in dairy cattle was first reported.
Influenza viruses are more likely to spread when people and animals from many places are in close contact, such as at fairs and shows.
While rare, influenza A viruses can spread from people to animals (including pigs, poultry, and cattle) and from animals to people.
The main way people get infected with animal influenza A viruses is by being around infected animals, especially if they have close contact with them.
It is not very common for people to get sick from these viruses, but when they do, the sickness can vary from mild to severe.
In some cases, it can even lead to hospitalization or death.
CDC recommends fair organizers take actions to help prevent the spread of influenza A viruses between animals at fairs and animals and people.
Prevent the spread of flu Preventing the spread of influenza viruses between animals and people at fairs The risk of infection and spread of animal influenza A viruses to people can be reduced by taking simple actions.
CDC recommends fair organizers consider the following actions: Actions to consider when planning for fairs: Have available appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) for staff and exhibitors to follow the Personal Protective Equipment for Avian Influenza A Viruses in the Workplace in the event sick animals are identified during the fair This includes protective clothing, gloves, goggles, and a respirator or well-fitting mask that covers the mouth and nose.
Control visitor traffic to prevent overcrowding.
Create opportunities for one-directional traffic flow and limit public access to animals and animal bedding outside of designated areas when possible.
Locate food service, concession stands, and dining/picnic tables away from animal areas.
Place physical barriers between the public and animal displays to limit close contact with poultry, pigs, cattle, and other animals.
Use alternatives to live-animal, hands-on exhibits that do not involve close contact with poultry, pigs, and cattle (i.e., milk a pretend cow exhibit).
Provide adequate ventilation for both animals and humans.
For enclosed or partially enclosed barns, increase the amount of clean outdoor air and direct clean air so that it flows over visitors and workers before animals and minimizes disturbing dust.
Store animal feeding, watering, and cleaning equipment (e.g., buckets, shovels, wheelbarrows, and pitchforks) in designated areas that restrict public access.
Avoid transporting soiled bedding through non-animal areas or transition areas.
If this is unavoidable, take precautions to prevent spillage and clean up spillage right after it occurs.
Locate longer-term exhibits (i.e., big bulls/boars, birthing center animals, breed exhibits) away from areas where competition livestock are housed.
Limit the time animals are kept on the exhibition grounds (72 hours or less is ideal) to help prevent or interrupt the spread of flu between animals.
Where feasible, clean and disinfect animal areas (e.g., flooring and railings) and equipment (e.g., gates, chutes, sort panels) at least once daily.
Additionally, animal areas should be cleaned and disinfected between groups of animals.
Use disinfectants effective against influenza A viruses that are safe for human and animal contact.
Inform and educate exhibitors and visitors on the risks of infection and spread of animal influenza A viruses and how to prevent the spread between people and animals (including pigs, poultry, and cattle).
Display or hand out educational materials to exhibitors at registration and to visitors when entering fairgrounds on how to prevent the spread of influenza viruses between people and animals (including pigs, poultry, and cattle).
Post materials that show who may be at higher risk of serious flu complications and instruct them not to have close contact with animals that could carry influenza viruses (pigs, poultry, and cattle) and should not enter enclosures.
Post signs or otherwise instruct visitors not to eat, drink, smoke/vape, touch or place their hands in their mouth, touch their eyes, or use bottles or pacifiers while in animal areas.
Educate staff and exhibitors to instruct visitors not to carry toys, pacifiers, spill-proof cups, baby bottles, strollers, or similar items into animal areas.
If possible, establish storage or holding areas for strollers and related items.
Instruct visitors to supervise children closely to discourage touching of eyes, hand-to-mouth activities (e.g., nail-biting and thumb-sucking), and prevent contact with soiled animal bedding.
Parents should also be instructed to prevent their children from sitting or playing on the ground in animal areas.
Instruct visitors to limit contact with animals that can be infected with influenza viruses (including pigs, poultry, and cattle).
Direct physical contact with the animal includes touching, holding, kissing, being bitten, licked, and scratched.
Instruct parents and children to wash their hands with soap and water right after leaving animal areas, even if they did not touch an animal, and after coming in contact with contaminated environments or materials.
If children's hands become soiled, supervised hand washing should occur immediately.
Post signs on hand hygiene and provide multiple hand-washing stations with running water, soap, and paper towels in transition areas between animal and non-animal areas and in food concession areas.
Ensure hand-washing stations are accessible for all visitors, including children and persons with disabilities.
Post all signs and other instructions in English, Spanish, and other appropriate languages, as well as in age-appropriate formats.
Consult USDA's animal health recommendations for livestock exhibition available at Recommendations to Minimize Influenza Transmission at Dairy Cattle Livestock Exhibitions (usda.gov) .
Both CDC's guidance and USDA's guidance touch on key infection prevention and control recommendations for both humans and animals.
CDC's guidance may be helpful in planning and putting into practice actions to prevent infection spread between animals and people, and also highlight actions for people who may be at higher risk of severe outcomes from influenza.
USDA's guidance focuses on planning and putting into practice actions that can reduce the risk of influenza spreading between animals.
Symptoms of infection When people get infected with animal influenza A viruses, they may experience signs and symptoms that are similar to those caused by seasonal influenza A viruses, including: fever or feeling feverish cough sore throat runny or stuffy nose muscle or body aches headaches fatigue sometimes vomiting or diarrhea eye redness/irritation or eye discharge (This is more commonly reported with human infections with animal influenza viruses than seasonal influenza viruses.) Planning for fairs Actions to take: Involve state animal health officials, state or local public health officials, and fair veterinarians in preparations for the fair.
Create a written protocol for implementation of biosecurity and animal health practices at the fair.
Create a written protocol for enhanced biosecurity in case of an outbreak of flu in animals or people.
Consider restricting exhibition of lactating dairy cows in states with ongoing outbreaks of HPAI in dairy cattle.
Collect sufficient contact information) from all exhibitors (i.e., email addresses and cell phone numbers) to rapidly communicate procedural changes, requests for information, or incidents associated with the fair.
Maintain records of source farms and individual animal identification to enhance the speed and accuracy of any animal disease investigations associated with the fair.
Resources CDC Issues Updated Guidance to Help Prevent Spread of Flu at Agricultural Fairs NASPHV Animal Contact Compendium Key Public Health Prevention Recommendations for HPAI A(H5N1) Reducing Exposure for Workers to Avian Influenza A Viruses Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus: Interim Recommendations for Prevention, Monitoring, and Public Health Investigations Measures to Minimize Influenza Transmission at Swine Exhibitions June 2018 Download Recommendations to Minimize Influenza Transmission at Dairy Cattle Livestock Exhibitions Download National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians (NASPHV) Zoonotic Influenza Reference Guide Download Telephone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)/TTY: 1-888-232-63548 Contact: Contact CDC-INFO National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians United States Animal Health Association Fair Attendees: Take Actions to Prevent Flu at the Fair Download Fair Attendees: Take Actions to Prevent Flu at the Fair (Spanish) Download ON THIS PAGE Background Prevent the spread of flu Planning for fairs Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza in Animals Learn what animals influenza A viruses are found in.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 7 de abril del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  La directriz del secretario Kennedy es que los CDC lideren a la nación en la preparación y respuesta en asuntos de salud.
Su visita a Texas , para apoyar los esfuerzos del estado para controlar el brote de sarampión, dio lugar a conversaciones con funcionarios de salud del estado de Texas para enviar otro equipo de respuesta de los CDC al área con el fin de prestar ayuda adicional en los esfuerzos del estado para proteger a sus ciudadanos contra el sarampión y sus complicaciones.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Comunicado del Centro Nacional para la Prevención y el Control de Lesiones de los CDC sobre los datos provisionales de muertes por sobredosis en el 2024 Los CDC anuncian un brote de Salmonella vinculado a las aves de corral domésticas Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión Los CDC reportan una reducción de casi un 24 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas en los Estados Unidos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 11, 2024 About Division of Vector-borne Diseases AT A GLANCE NCEZID's Division of Vector-Borne Diseases (DVBD) works to identify and respond to vector-borne diseases that affect human health domestically and globally.
Our mission DVBD's mission is to protect people from illness, suffering, and death due to vector-borne diseases.
Priorities Identify and detect vector-borne pathogens that cause diseases in people Understand when, where, how often, and how people are exposed to vector-borne pathogens Prevent exposure to vector-borne pathogens and mitigate consequences of infection Implement vector-borne disease diagnostics, surveillance, control, and prevention programs Why it matters Americans are at an increasing risk of vector-borne diseases, and the United States is not adequately prepared to respond to these threats.
Vector-borne pathogens are spread to people and animals primarily through the bite of an infected mosquito, tick, or flea.
Only a few mosquito-borne viruses can be prevented with vaccines.
In most cases, people need to protect themselves from mosquito, tick, and flea bites to prevent infection.
Our work We strive to protect the nation from viruses and bacteria spread by mosquitoes, ticks, or fleas.
Identify and respond to emerging and newly discovered pathogens threatening the United States and the world.
Develop and improve diagnostic tests and serve as a global reference laboratory for vector-borne pathogens.
Develop and evaluate vaccines for dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and other vector-borne viruses and bacteria.
Train domestic and global public health workers to prevent, diagnose, and control vector-borne diseases.
Conduct surveillance and monitor the impact and spread of vector-borne diseases.
Discover vector-borne pathogens by using traditional laboratory methods and advanced molecular detection methods.
Leadership Lyle Petersen, MD, MPH Division of Vector-borne Diseases Lyle Petersen, MD, MPH, Director Lyle Petersen, MD, MPH, is the director of the Division of Vector-Borne Diseases in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
Resources National Public Health Framework for the Prevention and Control of Vector-Borne Diseases in Humans ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Why it matters Our work Leadership Bio Resources RELATED PAGES Divisions and Offices About DFWED About DHCPP About DHQP About DIDRI About DPDM VIEW ALL NCEZID About Us SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 16, 2024 DIDRI Director STAFF BIO Margaret (Peggy) Honein, PhD, MPH Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation Margaret (Peggy) Honein, PhD, MPH, is the director of the Division of Infectious Disease Readiness & Innovation in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
Role at CDC Dr.
Honein is the director of NCEZID's Division of Infectious Disease Readiness and Innovation (DIDRI).
Prior to joining DIDRI, Dr.
Honein was the director of the Division of Birth Defects and Infant Disorders within the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities.
Honein has focused the majority of her research on maternal and child health, including the impact of infections during pregnancy.
She also has considerable experience in emerging infectious diseases and emergency response.
Achievements Dr.
Honein has served in crucial leadership roles in numerous public health emergency responses, including those for H1N1 influenza, Zika, and COVID-19.
In the Zika response, Dr.
Honein co-led the Pregnancy and Birth Defects Tasks Force and was a deputy incident manager.
She was responsible for developing the public health science agenda to understand the association between Zika virus infections during pregnancy and adverse outcomes, including serious birth defects.
In the COVID-19 response, Dr.
Honein served in multiple leadership roles, including incident manager; principal deputy incident manager; and State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial (STLT) Support Task Force lead.
In the COVID-19 response, Dr.
Honein spearheaded a new approach to serving STLT partners, including establishing dedicated points of contact for each jurisdiction and creating a scientific unit to support rapid field investigations alongside health departments to gather data that directly informed updates to CDC guidance throughout the pandemic.
Honein has co-authored more than 200 publications and is the recipient of multiple awards, including a Samuel J.
Heyman Service to America Medal (Science and Environment) in 2018 and the CDC Director’s Award for Public Health Impact in 2021.
Education Dr.
Honein joined CDC in 1997 as an Epidemic Intelligence Service Officer.
She received her BS degree in biology from the University of California, Riverside in 1986; her MPH from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1992; and her PhD in epidemiology from UCLA in 1995.
ON THIS PAGE Role at CDC Achievements Education SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC reportan una reducción de casi un 24 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas en los Estados Unidos PRESS RELEASE Para publicación inmediata: 26 de febrero del 2025 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Nuevos datos provisionales del Sistema Nacional de Estadísticas Vitales de los CDC predicen una reducción de casi un 24 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas en los Estados Unidos para el periodo de 12 meses que terminó en septiembre del 2024, en comparación con el año previo.
Estos son los datos a nivel nacional disponibles más recientes y muestran un descenso considerable continuo en las muertes por sobredosis.
Los datos provisionales muestran alrededor de 87 000 muertes por sobredosis de drogas desde octubre del 2023 hasta septiembre del 2024, una cifra menor que la de alrededor de 114 000 muertes del año anterior.
Esta es la menor cantidad de muertes por sobredosis observada en todos los periodos de 12 meses desde junio del 2020.
"No tiene precedentes observar una caída en las muertes previstas por sobredosis de más de 27 000 casos en un solo año", dijo Allison Arwady, MD, MPH, la directora del Centro Nacional para la Prevención y el Control de Lesiones, de los CDC.
"Eso es más de 70 vidas que se salvan cada día.
Las inversiones de los CDC en salud pública, nuestros sistemas de datos y de laboratorio de respuesta a sobredosis perfeccionados, y nuestras colaboraciones con colegas de seguridad pública en cada estado significa que estamos identificando más rápidamente las amenazas de drogas emergentes, y apoyando las actividades de salud pública de prevención y respuesta en comunidades de todos los Estados Unidos", agregó.
Si bien esta reducción nacional es una noticia alentadora, las sobredosis siguen siendo la causa principal de muerte de personas en los Estados Unidos de entre 18 y 44 años, lo cual destaca la importancia de los esfuerzos sostenidos para garantizar que este progreso continúe.
El presidente Trump declaró en el 2017 por primera vez a las sobredosis de opioides como una emergencia de salud pública .
Esta designación sigue vigente, y los subsiguientes fondos para la salud pública otorgados a los CDC por parte del Congreso han transformado la capacidad de la nación para usar datos a fin de salvar vidas.
En los datos más recientes, 45 estados muestran reducciones en las muertes por sobredosis, pero cinco —Alaska, Dakota del Sur, Montana, Nevada y Utah— todavía muestran aumentos en las muertes por esta causa, lo cual destaca la necesidad continua de obtener datos locales rápido y de una respuesta adaptada.
Además de la gran caída provisional de los casos de sobredosis mortales, también vemos disminuciones más pequeñas en los casos de sobredosis no mortales, según mediciones por visitas a las salas de emergencias por sobredosis, y nos complacen las reducciones continuas en el consumo de sustancias autorreportado por los jóvenes.
Múltiples factores contribuyen a la caída en las muertes por sobredosis, incluida la amplia distribución, impulsada por los datos, de naloxona, un medicamento que salva vidas porque puede revertir una sobredosis; el mejor acceso a tratamiento para los trastornos por consumo de sustancias basado en la evidencia; los cambios en el suministro de las drogas ilegales; la reanudación en las actividades de prevención y respuesta después de las interrupciones relacionadas con la pandemia; y las inversiones continuas en los programas de prevención y respuesta, como el programa emblemático de los CDC Datos de Sobredosis para la Acción (OD2A, por sus siglas en inglés).
Este programa de los CDC proporciona a los estados Unidos datos sólidos a través de sus sistemas de datos de sobredosis mortales (SUDORS) y no mortales (DOSE).
En la actualidad, 49 departamentos de salud estatales, y 41 locales, reciben fondos del programa OD2A para la recolección, la mejora y el uso inmediato de los datos en sus comunidades a fin de implementar actividades que salvan vidas.
Por ejemplo, el programa OD2A otorga fondos para pruebas de laboratorio integrales, lo cual nos permite identificar sustancias emergentes vinculadas a sobredosis no mortales y mortales, y destacar rápidamente los cambios geográficos en el suministro ilegal de drogas.
Los departamentos de salud pública estatales y locales, en colaboración con los expertos de los CDC, usan los datos para fundamentar en dónde, en qué, y cuándo se necesitan esfuerzos de prevención en las comunidades para tener el mayor efecto y salvar vidas.
Finalmente, los CDC financian la Estrategia de respuesta a las sobredosis, una innovadora colaboración sobre datos de salud pública y de seguridad pública en cada estado, la cual permite que profesionales de seguridad pública, como los de las fuerzas policiales, usen los datos para tener un mejor conocimiento e interceptar las drogas ilegales.
Vamos en la dirección correcta, y debemos acelerar y fortalecer las inversiones continuas de los CDC en la prevención para reducir las muertes por sobredosis.
Ampliar el acceso a tratamiento para los trastornos por consumo de sustancias basado en la evidencia —incluidos los medicamentos para el trastorno por consumo de opioides, como la buprenorfina y la metadona— es importante, además de la creación de más intervenciones impulsadas por la comunidad y la promoción de educación e intervención tempranas para prevenir los trastornos por consumo de sustancias antes de que comiencen.
Para obtener más información sobre los esfuerzos de los CDC de prevención de sobredosis y sus datos, visite: Lo que están haciendo los CDC | Prevención de sobredosis | CDC PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a batidos de suplementos distribuidos en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a batidos de suplementos distribuidos en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 11, 2024 DGMH Director STAFF BIO David Fitter, MD Division of Global Migration Health CAPT David Fitter, MD, is the director of the Division of Global Migration Health in CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
Role at CDC Dr.
Fitter is Director of NCEZD's Division of Global Migration Health (DGMH).
Fitter previously served as the chief for the Immunization Systems Branch at the Center for Global Health.
During the COVID-19 response, he served in several roles including as principal deputy incident manager and co-led the Vaccine Task Force, where he oversaw efforts to ready public health departments for the distribution, storage, and administration of vaccines.
That important work included the implementation of data-sharing systems that tracked vaccination campaigns down to the ZIP code level, helping get vaccine doses to people in remote areas.
Fitter joined CDC in 2011 as an Epidemic Intelligence Service officer, working mainly in Haiti for the Emergency Response and Recovery Branch, serving later as medical officer and team lead.
From 2016–2019, he took on two lead roles in Haiti, as country director and as program director for the Division of Global Health Protection.
Fitter has deployed for CDC to emergencies in countries across Africa, including in the 2014–2016 West Africa Ebola outbreak.
When the Syrian civil war escalated in 2013, he deployed to neighboring Turkey to support an international polio vaccination campaign in northern Syria and efforts to control disease outbreaks common in crisis regions.
Previous experience Prior to joining CDC, Dr.
Fitter served as a healthcare provider at a hospital in Gabon and at an outpatient HIV/AIDS clinic in South Africa.
He previously worked in several countries including work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Rwanda.
Achievements For his vaccine leadership during the COVID-19 response, Dr.
Fitter and others were honored with a Samuel J.
Heyman Service to America Medal (also known as the “Sammies” – the “Oscars” of federal government service).
Education Dr.
Fitter’s training includes an undergraduate degree from Johns Hopkins University, a Doctor of Medicine from the University of Chicago, and internal medicine residency at Yale.
He is adjunct faculty at Emory University’s Rollins School of Public Health and has practiced medicine at a community health center, providing primary care to people with limited access to healthcare.
ON THIS PAGE Role at CDC Previous experience Achievements Education RELATED PAGES Leadership DHCPP Director DHQP Director DPDM Director DIDRI Director DVBD Director VIEW ALL NCEZID DVBD Director SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About Us Priorities Our Topics Leadership Funding Data and Research Strategic Plan Our Impact Partners Careers Laws and Regulations Tools and Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 16, 2024 DHQP Director STAFF BIO Michael (Mike) Bell, MD Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion Michael (Mike) Bell, MD, is the Director of the Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion in CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
Role at CDC Dr.
Bell is the Director of NCEZID's Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP).
He has served as deputy director of DHQP since 2010 and was selected as Acting Director of DHQP in 2023.
DHQP promotes the protection of patients and healthcare personnel, and improvements in safety and quality of health care.
Examples of activities include producing guidelines for prevention of healthcare associated infections (HAI), programs for combating antimicrobial resistance (AR), and improvements in basic safe medical practices such as safe injections.
Previous experience Dr.
Bell was previously the chief of the Epidemiology Unit at the Viral Special Pathogens Branch, addressing infection control for high-risk pathogens such as Ebola virus.
His first position at CDC was in the Hospital Infections Program (DHQP's previous name), investigating outbreaks of healthcare-associated illness and writing national infection control guidelines.
Education Dr.
Bell received his medical degree from the University of Washington and trained in Internal Medicine at the University of Colorado, and in Infectious Diseases at the University of California San Francisco.
ON THIS PAGE Role at CDC Previous experience Education RELATED PAGES Leadership DFWED Director DHCPP Director DPDM Director DIDRI Director VIEW ALL NCEZID DPDM Director SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEZID CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases saves lives through the prevention, early detection, and control of infectious disease threats.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas DECLARACIÓN CONJUNTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 10 de enero del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC), el Departamento de Agricultura (USDA) y el Departamento del Interior (DOI) de los Estados Unidos difundieron hoy el primer Marco de trabajo nacional de Una Sola Salud para abordar las enfermedades zoonóticas y avanzar en la preparación de salud pública en los Estados Unidos.
Una Sola Salud es un enfoque colaborativo, multisectorial y transdisciplinario que busca mejorar la salud de los seres humanos, los animales y el ambiente mediante el reconocimiento de sus estrechas conexiones.
El enfoque de Una Sola Salud provee de manera importante un marco de trabajo para explorar amenazas para la salud compartidas entre las personas y los animales, tales como el COVID-19, la viruela símica (mpox), la influenza (gripe) aviar, el ébola y otros problemas compartidos de Una Sola Salud.
Por orden del Congreso en la Ley de Presupuesto Consolidado del 2023, los CDC, el Departamento de Agricultura y el Departamento del Interior crearon este marco de trabajo para abordar las enfermedades zoonóticas y avanzar en la preparación de salud pública en los Estados Unidos.
Los CDC, el USDA y el DOI son responsables de proteger la salud pública, la salud de los animales domésticos, y la salud silvestre y ambiental, respectivamente, y como tales son representantes de sectores clave de Una Sola Salud para el Gobierno estadounidense.
Estas tres agencias a través de la historia han abordado asuntos de Una Sola Salud y trabajan para ayudar a controlar las enfermedades zoonóticas que afectan tanto a las personas como a los animales.
El marco de trabajo busca fundamentar la colaboración de Una Sola Salud dentro del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos durante los próximos cinco años, al describir una visión y misión comunes, así como metas comunes para los colaboradores federales clave que participen en la implementación del enfoque de Una Sola Salud para abordar las enfermedades zoonóticas dentro de este país.
Al crear este marco de trabajo, el Gobierno estadounidense está ayudando a garantizar que se sienten las bases para una respuesta eficaz contra las enfermedades en el futuro, de manera que podamos estar mejor preparados para la próxima amenaza posible.
Para obtener más información sobre Una Sola Salud y la coordinación federal de los esfuerzos de Una Sola Salud, visite: 
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC reportan una reducción de casi un 24 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas en los Estados Unidos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a batidos de suplementos distribuidos en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo Primera muerte por influenza aviar H5 notificada en los Estados Unidos Los CDC confirman el primer caso grave de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Primera muerte por influenza aviar H5 notificada en los Estados Unidos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a batidos de suplementos distribuidos en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo MEDIA ALERT Para publicación inmediata: 24 de febrero del 2025 CDC Media Relations (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una alerta sobre la seguridad de los alimentos acerca de un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Listeria:  Puntos clave: Treinta y ocho personas en 21 estados han sido infectadas por esta cepa de Listeria del brote.
Treinta y siete personas fueron hospitalizadas y 12 personas murieron.
Aunque algunos casos son del 2018, más de la mitad de las personas afectadas por este brote se enfermaron en el 2024 o 2025.
Es común que los brotes de Listeria duren varios años porque es un microbio extremadamente resistente que puede sobrevivir en las superficies por periodos largos.
Los CDC han investigado esta cepa varias veces, pero nunca tuvieron suficiente información para identificar a un alimento como la fuente, fuera de que era algo que se estaba sirviendo en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo.
Las pruebas ambientales y la secuenciación del genoma completo ayudaron a resolver el brote este año.
Lyons ReadyCare y Sysco han retirado del mercado todos los batidos de suplementos de sus marcas que no han vencido.
Se deben dirigir las preguntas sobre este retiro a la Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos (FDA).
Las edades de las personas afectadas varían de 43 a 101 años, y los adultos mayores de 65 años son los más afectados.
Estos batidos se distribuyeron en todo el país en entornos institucionales, como establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo, y se les dieron más comúnmente a personas con dietas blandas médicamente necesarias.
Estos productos no están disponibles para el público en general y solo están disponibles en entornos institucionales, como establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma ningún producto retirado del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Limpie su refrigerador, los recipientes y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los productos retirados del mercado.
La Listeria puede sobrevivir en el refrigerador y propagarse fácilmente a otros alimentos y superficies.
Comuníquese con un proveedor de atención médica de inmediato si tiene síntomas después de comer productos retirados del mercado.
Lo que deben hacer los negocios: No vendan ni sirvan batidos de suplementos retirados del mercado.
Sigan los consejos de la FDA sobre la manipulación segura y la limpieza si vendieron o sirvieron productos retirados del mercado.
Síntomas de la infección por Listeria: La Listeria es especialmente dañina para las mujeres embarazadas, las personas de 65 años o más, o las personas que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado.
Esto se debe a que es más probable que la Listeria se propague más allá del intestino a otras partes del cuerpo, provocando una enfermedad grave conocida como listeriosis invasiva.
En las mujeres embarazadas, la Listeria puede causar pérdida del embarazo, nacimiento prematuro o una infección que puede poner en riesgo la vida del recién nacido.
En las personas de 65 años o más o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado, la Listeria a menudo causa hospitalización y, a veces, la muerte.
Los síntomas por lo general comienzan dentro de las dos semanas después de comer alimentos contaminados con Listeria, pero podrían aparecer tan pronto como el mismo día o incluso hasta 10 semanas después.
Las mujeres embarazadas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
Otras personas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
También podrían tener dolor de cabeza, rigidez de cuello, confusión, pérdida del equilibrio o convulsiones.
Para obtener más información sobre la Listeria, vea la página principal sobre la Listeria.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Comunicado de los CDC sobre el brote de sarampión Los CDC reportan una reducción de casi un 24 % en las muertes por sobredosis de drogas en los Estados Unidos El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas Primera muerte por influenza aviar H5 notificada en los Estados Unidos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Overdose Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention Managing Substance Use Disorders Data Resources Additional HHS Resources Overdose Prevention Resources Management and Treatment of Pain Reversing Overdose VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Practice Guideline at a Glance Clinical Care and Treatment Health Care Provider Toolkits Health Care Provider Trainings Electronic CDS Tools for Opioids VIEW ALL Public Health Strategies and Partnerships Resources for Public Health Professionals Public Health Professional Toolkits Public Health Professional Trainings Journal Articles MMWR Articles Guides and Meeting Reports Related Publications VIEW ALL Related Topics: Free Mind | Stop Overdose | Overdose Resource Exchange View All Overdose Data to Action JULY 12, 2025 AT A GLANCE CDC's Overdose Data to Action (OD2A) cooperative agreement provides funding to 90 health departments under two distinct OD2A programs to reduce drug overdoses and the impact of related harms.
Find links to information on funded health departments, prevention and surveillance strategies, success stories, and resources.
Program Information About OD2A Overdose Data to Action in States Overdose Data to Action: LOCAL Prevention Strategies Surveillance Strategies OD2A Stories Funded Jurisdictions Resources OD2A Evaluation Resources Case Studies from OD2A Jurisdictions Overdose Resource Exchange Drug Overdose Surveillance and Epidemiology (DOSE) System nonfatal overdose data State Unintentional Drug Overdose Reporting System (SUDORS) fatal overdose data Strategic Priorities for Overdose Prevention Overdose Prevention ON THIS PAGE Program Information Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Overdose Prevention Overdose prevention is a CDC priority that impacts families and communities.
Drug overdose is a leading cause of preventable death in the U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Los CDC confirman el primer caso grave de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos ENGLISH (US) ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 19 de diciembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  18 de diciembre del 2024.
Esto marca el primer caso de enfermedad grave vinculado al virus en los Estados Unidos.
Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) confirmaron el caso el viernes 13 de diciembre.
Desde abril del 2024, ha habido un total de 61 casos de influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos, notificados en los Estados Unidos.
Datos parciales del genoma viral del virus de la influenza aviar H5N1 que infectó al paciente en Luisiana indican que el virus pertenece al genotipo D1.1, relacionado con otros virus D1.1 detectados recientemente en aves silvestres y aves de corral en los Estados Unidos, y en casos recientes en seres humanos en el estado de Washington, también en los Estados Unidos, y en la Columbia Británica, en Canadá.
Este genotipo de la influenza aviar H5N1 es diferente del genotipo B3.13 detectado en vacas lecheras, casos esporádicos en seres humanos en varios estados y algunos brotes en aves de corral en los Estados Unidos.
En los CDC, se están haciendo esfuerzos y secuenciación genómica adicionales para aislar el virus de muestras clínicas obtenidas del paciente en Luisiana.
Aunque la investigación acerca de la fuente de la infección en Luisiana está en marcha, se ha determinado que el paciente estuvo expuesto a aves enfermas y muertas en grupos de aves domésticas.
Este es el primer caso de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos que se ha vinculado a la exposición a un grupo de aves domésticas.
Un caso esporádico de enfermedad grave por el virus de la influenza aviar H5N1 en una persona no es inesperado; la infección por el virus de la influenza aviar A(H5N1) se ha asociado previamente a casos de enfermedad grave en seres humanos en otros países, durante el 2024 y años anteriores, incluso a casos que han causado la muerte.
No se ha detectado la propagación de la influenza aviar H5 de persona a persona.
Este caso no cambia la estimación general de los CDC del riesgo inmediato de la influenza aviar H5N1 para la salud del público, que sigue siendo bajo.
Este caso subraya que, además de las operaciones comerciales avícolas y lecheras afectadas, las aves silvestres y los grupos de aves domésticas también pueden ser una fuente de exposición.
Las personas con exposiciones laborales o recreativas a animales infectados están en mayor riesgo de infección y deberían tomar las precauciones recomendadas por los CDC cuando estén cerca de animales infectados o posiblemente infectados por el virus de la influenza aviar H5N1.
Esto significa que los dueños de grupos de aves domésticas, los cazadores y otros entusiastas de las aves también deberían tomar precauciones.
La mejor manera de prevenir la influenza aviar H5 es evitar la exposición siempre que sea posible.
Las aves infectadas excretan virus de la influenza aviar A a través de la saliva, las mucosidades y los excrementos.
Es posible que otros animales infectados excreten virus de la influenza aviar A a través de las secreciones respiratorias y otros líquidos corporales (p.
ej., leche de vaca no pasteurizada o 'leche cruda').
Como precaución general, cuando sea posible, las personas deberían evitar el contacto con animales enfermos o muertos, en particular con aves silvestres y aves de corral.
Las personas que tienen contacto directo o cercano con aves silvestres o con aves de corral u otros animales enfermos o muertos deberían usar el equipo de protección personal (EPP) recomendado.
Las aves silvestres pueden estar infectadas con virus de la influenza aviar A aunque no parezcan enfermas.
No toque superficies o materiales (p.
ej., el material de los lugares donde duermen los animales) contaminados con saliva, mucosidades o heces de aves silvestres o domésticas o de otros animales con infección confirmada o presunta por el virus de la influenza aviar A.
Para obtener más información sobre la influenza aviar H5 en los Estados Unidos y la respuesta de los CDC, incluidas las cifras de casos actualizadas regularmente, visite la página web Influenza aviar H5: situación actual.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas Primera muerte por influenza aviar H5 notificada en los Estados Unidos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a productos de carne y pollo listos para comer.
VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Listeria Infection (Listeriosis) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Listeria Outbreaks How It Spreads Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Care and Treatment VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Lab Testing Publications VIEW ALL View All For Everyone MAY 16, 2025 Listeria Outbreak Linked to Supplement Shakes FOOD SAFETY ALERT Investigation status: Closed Recall issued: Yes This outbreak is over.
Learn what you can do to protect yourself from getting sick from Listeria.
FAST FACTS Cases: 42 Hospitalizations: 41 Deaths: 14 States: 21 Updates Locations Timeline Recalled food On February 22, 2025, Lyons Magnus LLC recalled frozen supplement shakes that were distributed to food service operators and long-term care facilities.
Recalled foods are no longer available for sale.
What you should do Stay healthy and prevent Listeria Find out if you are at higher risk for getting sick with Listeria.
Learn which foods are more likely to contain Listeria and take steps to prevent getting sick.
Stay up to date on food recalls and outbreaks to avoid getting sick from eating contaminated food.
Symptoms of Listeria Listeria is especially harmful to women who are pregnant, people aged 65 or older, or people with weakened immune systems.
This is because Listeria is more likely to spread beyond their gut to other parts of their body, resulting in a severe condition known as invasive listeriosis.
For women who are pregnant, Listeria can cause pregnancy loss, premature birth, or a life-threatening infection in their newborn.
For people who are 65 years or older or who have a weakened immune system, Listeria often results in hospitalization and sometimes death.
Symptoms usually start within 2 weeks after eating food contaminated with Listeria but may start as early as the same day or as late as 10 weeks after.
Pregnant women usually have fever, muscle aches, and tiredness.
Other people may have headaches, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, or seizures.
See also CDC: About Listeria Infection FDA: Outbreak Investigation of Listeria – Supplement Shakes FDA: Lyons Magnus Recalls Supplement Shakes ON THIS PAGE Recalled food What you should do Symptoms of Listeria See also SOURCES PRINT SHARE Listeria Infection Listeria infection is caused by eating food contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes bacteria.
The infection can be very serious for some groups of people.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Primera muerte por influenza aviar H5 notificada en los Estados Unidos ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 6 de enero del 2025 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  6 de enero del 2025.- Los CDC están entristecidos por el informe de Luisiana sobre la muerte de una persona previamente hospitalizada con un caso grave de influenza (gripe) aviar A(H5N1).
Aunque es trágico, una muerte por influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos no es inesperada debido a que se sabe que la infección por estos virus tiene el potencial de causar enfermedad grave y la muerte.
Hasta el 6 de enero del 2025, ha habido 66 casos confirmados de influenza aviar H5N1 en seres humanos en los Estados Unidos desde el 2024, y 67 desde el 2022.
Esta es la primera persona que ha muerto en los Estados Unidos como consecuencia de una infección por el virus H5.
Fuera de los Estados Unidos, se han notificado más de 950 casos de influenza aviar H5N1 a la Organización Mundial de la Salud ; aproximadamente la mitad de esos casos han provocado la muerte de la persona.
Los CDC han estudiado cuidadosamente la información disponible sobre la persona que murió en Luisiana y continúan estimando que el riesgo para el público en general sigue siendo bajo.
Lo que es más importante, no se ha identificado propagación por transmisión de persona a persona.
Como con el caso en Luisiana, la mayoría de las infecciones por el virus de la influenza aviar H5 están relacionadas con exposiciones de seres humanos a animales.
Además, no hay cambios virológicos de preocupación propagándose de manera activa en aves silvestres, aves de corral o vacas, que aumentarían el riesgo para la salud humana.
(Los CDC reportaron previamente sobre su análisis de los virus aislados del paciente en Luisiana).
Sin embargo, las personas con exposición, relacionada con el trabajo o recreativa, a aves o a otros animales infectados están en mayor riesgo de infección.
Para estas y otras personas, los CDC han creado recursos preventivos sobre cómo protegerse.
Los CDC están continuamente: Apoyando importantes investigaciones epidemiológicas con colaboradores estatales y locales para evaluar el impacto de cada caso de infección por el virus H5 en la salud pública.
Trabajando de cerca con colaboradores estatales y locales para llevar a cabo la vigilancia activa de los casos de infección por el virus H5.
Monitoreando para ver si se producen cambios que podrían indicar que los virus H5 se están adaptando mejor a los mamíferos y, por lo tanto, podrían propagarse con más facilidad de los animales a los seres humanos o entre los seres humanos, o causar casos más graves de enfermedad.
Monitoreando para ver si se producen cambios virales que podrían hacer que estos virus respondan menos a los medicamentos antivirales contra la influenza o a los virus preparados como candidatos para la producción de vacunas.
Hay más información sobre la influenza aviar H5 en el sitio web de los CDC.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a batidos de suplementos distribuidos en establecimientos de cuidados a largo plazo El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos difunde el primer plan nacional de Una Sola Salud para proteger a las personas, los animales y nuestro ambiente de las amenazas para la salud compartidas Los CDC confirman el primer caso grave de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC confirman el primer caso grave de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
One Health EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About One Health VIEW ALL Public Health About CDC's One Health Office One Health Publications Stories Trainings and Events Zoonoses & One Health Updates (ZOHU) Call Webinar Series One Health Communication Resources Zoonotic Disease Prioritization What's New VIEW ALL Related Topics: Home | National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) View All Federal One Health Coordination FEB.
14, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW CDC works closely with the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of the Interior (DOI), and many other federal agencies to exchange information and coordinate One Health activities across the United States government.
The NOHF-Zoonoses will guide collaborative efforts across the United States government for the next 5 years, helping federal agencies work together to prevent and control zoonotic diseases and prepare for future health threats, protecting health for all.
Advancing One Health in the United States Spotlight The first ever National One Health Framework to Address Zoonotic Diseases and Advance Public Health Preparedness in the United States includes a common vision, mission, and goals for key federal partners involved in implementing the One Health approach to protect people, animals, and our shared environment from zoonotic diseases and other One Health threats.
National One Health Framework to Address Zoonotic Diseases and Advance Public Health Preparedness in the U.S.
In both the 2021 House Appropriations Committee Report and the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act, Congress directed CDC to collaborate with USDA, DOI, and other federal agencies partners to create a National One Health Framework to Address Zoonotic Diseases and Advance Public Health Preparedness in the United States (NOHF-Zoonoses).
The NOHF-Zoonoses will inform One Health collaboration across the U.S.
government for the next 5 years, describing a common vision, mission, and goals for key federal partners involved in implementing the One Health approach to protect people, animals, and our shared environment from zoonotic diseases and other One Health threats within the United States.
The framework establishes goals and objectives to strengthen coordinated federal activities in the United States and better prepare for the next potential threat.
National One Health Framework to Address Zoonotic Diseases and Advance Public Health Preparedness in the United States U.S.
federal partners developed the NOHF-Zoonoses to address zoonotic diseases & advance public heal...
JULY 9, 2025 Download U.S.
One Health Coordination Unit The Act also directed CDC to collaborate with interagency partners on the development of a One Health coordination mechanism at the federal level to strengthen One Health collaboration related to prevention, detection, control, and response for zoonotic diseases and related One Health work across the federal government.
As a result of this directive, the U.S.
One Health Coordination Unit (U.S.
OHCU) was launched in January 2024.
OHCU is built on shared interagency leadership from CDC, Department of the Interior (DOI) and U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA) and brings together 24 agencies to enhance collaboration that benefits human, animal, plants and environment health through activities such as promoting health, enhancing health-sustaining resources, emergency preparedness, and the prevention, detection, and response to zoonotic diseases.
Addressing priority zoonotic diseases of national concern In 2017, CDC, USDA, and DOI organized a One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) workshop to further joint efforts to address zoonotic disease challenges in the United States.
Participants in the workshop identified eight zoonotic diseases of greatest national concern: Zoonotic influenza Salmonellosis West Nile Plague Emerging coronaviruses (such as SARS and MERS, and as of 2020, COVID-19) Rabies Brucellosis Lyme disease After this workshop, CDC created the One Health Federal Interagency Network (OH-FIN) to bring together experts from key federal agencies representing multiple departments to exchange information, updates, and opportunities for collaboration in support of One Health across the federal government.
Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in the United States Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in the United States.
Download Responding to COVID-19 with the One Health Approach The COVID-19 pandemic led to the creation of new One Health coordination activities across the US government.
For example, CDC created and coordinates the One Health Federal Interagency Coordination Committee (OH-FICC), formerly known as the One Health Federal Interagency COVID-19 Coordination group, which brings together public health, animal health, and environment officials from more than 20 federal agencies to collaborate and exchange information on One Health issues.
We were able to rapidly stand up this One Health coordination by bringing in experts from the OH-FIN.
The original focus was on COVID-19 but expanded to other emerging health threats and public health emergencies like monkeypox, Ebola, and avian influenza in 2022.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, interagency working groups were formed and members contributed to developing guidance, messaging, and research at the human-animal-environment interface related to: companion animals wildlife and zoo animals production animals like farmed mink; environmental issues; and diagnostics and testing in animals.
CDC also coordinated regular calls with OH-FICC members, state, tribal, local and territorial (STLT), and nongovernmental partners for information sharing and collaboration.
These calls connect a wide range of partners so they can share updates and collaborate on a variety of One Health issues.
Federal One Health partners in the OH-FICC also investigated spread of SARS-CoV-2 between people and animals, through the development and implementation of a standardized One Health epidemiological investigation toolkit and surveillance system that has been adopted nationwide.
Combining surveillance data with genomic information from both human and animal samples through One Health investigations of SARS-CoV-2 infections in people and animals have helped improve our understanding of how COVID-19 affects different animal species, virus transmission, the potential for variant emergence in people and animals, and the potential role of animals in spreading the virus.
CDC One Health experts have conducted or assisted in investigations of SARS-CoV-2 cases in people and companion animals, farmed mink, wild animals, and captive animals in zoos, along with our state and local public health and animal health partners, as well as federal partners such as USDA and DOI.
Subscribe to our newsletter Sign up for our email newsletter below.
ON THIS PAGE Advancing One Health in the United States Addressing priority zoonotic diseases of national concern Responding to COVID-19 with the One Health Approach SOURCES PRINT SHARE One Health CDC’s One Health Office leads the agency’s One Health efforts in the United States and supports One Health activities worldwide.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Injury Center SEARCH About the CDC Injury Center Priorities Leadership Bios Injury Center Organization CDC Injury Center Divisions Budget and Funding Data, Statistics, and Reporting Impact VIEW ALL Injury and Violence Prevention CDC's Injury Center has protected the public from injury and violence for over 30 years.
Learn More Our focus Data, Statistics, and Reporting How we use data to understand when and why violence and injuries occur and how to prevent them.
Budget and Funding Budget and funding data, including information about state funding for priority areas.
Priorities How and why we prioritize these urgent, related, and preventable public health challenges.
Our organization About the CDC Injury Center CDC's Injury Center works to protect Americans from injury and violence.
Learn More Leadership Bios Learn about Injury Center leaders and experts.
Recent Press Releases Read about the Injury Center news and announcements from the last year.
Injury Center Organization View the Injury Center organizational structure.
Injury Center Learn about CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, also known as the Injury Center.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a productos de carne y pollo listos para comer ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 22 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una alerta sobre la seguridad de los alimentos acerca de un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Listeria en  Puntos clave: Se han notificado once casos de personas infectadas con la cepa Listeria del brote en cuatro estados.
De las 11 personas infectadas, nueve han sido hospitalizadas.
Una persona, un bebé, murió en California.
Las entrevistas con las personas enfermas y los hallazgos de laboratorio indican que los productos de carne y pollo listos para comer de Yu-Shang Food están enfermando a las personas.
Estos productos han sido retirados del mercado , pero algunos podrían todavía estar en los refrigeradores o congeladores de las personas.
Ejemplos de los alimentos retirados del mercado incluyen pernil de cerdo, patas de pollo, patas de cerdo, cuello de pato, pierna de res y lengua de cerdo.
Las preguntas acerca de los productos retirados del mercado se deben dirigir a la USDA- FSIS.
Lo que debe hacer: No consuma los productos retirados del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Limpie el refrigerador, los recipientes y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con los alimentos retirados del mercado.
La Listeria puede sobrevivir en el refrigerador y propagarse fácilmente a otros alimentos y superficies.
Comuníquese con un proveedor de atención médica de inmediato si tiene síntomas después de comer productos retirados del mercado.
Lo que deben hacer los negocios: No vendan ni sirvan productos retirados del mercado.
Sigan los consejos de la FDA sobre la manipulación segura y la limpieza si vendieron o sirvieron productos retirados del mercado.
Síntomas de la infección por Listeria: La Listeria es especialmente dañina para las personas embarazadas, las de 65 años o más, o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado.
Esto se debe a que es más probable que la Listeria se propague más allá del intestino a otras partes del cuerpo, provocando una enfermedad grave conocida como listeriosis invasiva.
En las personas embarazadas, la Listeria puede causar pérdida del embarazo, nacimiento prematuro o una infección que puede poner en riesgo la vida del recién nacido.
En las personas de 65 años o más o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado, la Listeria a menudo causa hospitalización y, a veces, la muerte.
Los síntomas por lo general comienzan dentro de las dos semanas después de comer alimentos contaminados con Listeria, pero podrían aparecer tan pronto como el mismo día o incluso hasta 10 semanas después.
Las personas embarazadas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
Las personas que no están embarazadas suelen presentar fiebre, dolores musculares y cansancio.
También podrían tener dolor de cabeza, rigidez de cuello, confusión, pérdida del equilibrio o convulsiones.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC confirman el primer caso grave de influenza aviar H5N1 en los Estados Unidos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos Los CDC confirman infección por influenza aviar H5N1 en un niño en California Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC confirman infección por influenza aviar H5N1 en un niño en California FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Food Safety EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Risk Factors Preventing Food Poisoning Educational Materials and Videos Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Information for Healthcare Professionals VIEW ALL Public Health Foodborne Illness Burden Foodborne Illness Sources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Restaurant Food Safety | About Norovirus | Foodborne outbreaks View All MAY 2, 2024 Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning AT A GLANCE Some foods are more likely than others to contain germs that can make you sick.
Learn more about each food and how to prevent food poisoning.
Risky foods and food preparation Chicken and Food Poisoning Raw chicken can cause foodborne illnesses.
Raw Flour and Dough Eating raw flour, eggs, or dough could lead to food poisoning.
Preparing Your Holiday Turkey Safely Store, thaw, handle, and cook raw turkey to prevent foodborne illness.
Raw Milk Consuming raw milk and raw milk products can pose health risks.
Keep Food Safe After a Disaster or Emergency Learn how to safely check and dispose of food, if needed, after an emergency.
Antimicrobial Resistance, Food, and Food Animals Antimicrobial-resistant bacteria can spread to people from food and animals.
Recalled foods Resource‎ Learn how to clean your refrigerator if you stored a recalled food in it.
ON THIS PAGE Risky foods and food preparation Recalled foods SOURCES PRINT SHARE Food Safety Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick.
Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
One Health EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About One Health VIEW ALL Public Health About CDC's One Health Office One Health Publications Stories Trainings and Events Zoonoses & One Health Updates (ZOHU) Call Webinar Series One Health Communication Resources Zoonotic Disease Prioritization What's New VIEW ALL Related Topics: Home | National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) View All U.S.
One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) Workshop Public Health AUG.
14, 2025 AT A GLANCE The CDC, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S.
Department of the Interior (DOI) organized an OHZDP workshop to jointly address zoonotic disease challenges in the United States.
This workshop was a critical step towards a unique U.S.
approach to One Health.
Background U.S.
One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization Report U.S.
OHZDP Workshop Summary Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in the United States Read the Summary The CDC, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S.
Department of the Interior (DOI) organized a One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) workshop to further joint efforts to address zoonotic disease challenges in the United States.
The workshop was held December 5-7, 2017, at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) headquarters in Washington, DC.
During the workshop, participants identified a list of zoonotic diseases (or zoonoses) relevant for the United States, defined the criteria for prioritization, and determined questions and weights relevant to each criterion.
Participants identified eight zoonotic diseases as priorities using a mixed methods prioritization process, the One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) Process tool, developed by CDC.
Participants then used components of the One Health Systems Mapping and Analysis Resource Toolkit (OH-SMARTTM), co-developed by USDA and the University of Minnesota, to review and visualize the One Health system currently in place to address the priority zoonotic diseases in the United States among relevant federal agencies.
The One Health system includes the procedures and processes for transdisciplinary and multisectoral coordination.
Next, participants developed specific steps to address the newly prioritized diseases following the workshop.
The specific workshop goals were: To use a multisectoral, One Health approach to identify and prioritize endemic and emerging zoonotic diseases of greatest national concern for the United States that should be jointly addressed by human, animal, and environmental health sectors responsible for federal zoonotic disease programs in HHS, USDA, and DOI.
To develop plans for implementing and strengthening multisectoral, One Health approaches to address these diseases in the United States.
This workshop was a critical step towards a unique U.S.
approach to One Health, ensuring that all stakeholders have a shared vision and roadmap for implementing One Health strategies for disease surveillance, response, preparedness, workforce, and prevention and control activities in their current and future areas of focus.
The workshop summary above describes the process used to prioritize the top zoonotic diseases of concern for the United States and the key themes surrounding priority next steps to address these diseases using a multisectoral, One Health approach that includes relevant human, animal, and environmental health sectors and other relevant partners.
Top Zoonotic Diseases of National Concern for the United States The prioritized zoonotic diseases for the United States are: Zoonotic influenza Salmonellosis West Nile virus Plague Emerging coronaviruses (e.g., severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle East respiratory syndrome) Rabies Brucellosis Lyme disease Related Resources Did you know?
CDC helps other countries conduct One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization workshops.
Read more about the process and see the final country reports.
Visit the OHZDP webpage About CDC's One Health Office OH-SMART (One Health Systems Mapping and Analysis Resource Toolkit) US Department of the Interior US Department of Agriculture ON THIS PAGE Background Top Zoonotic Diseases of National Concern for the United States Related Resources RELATED PAGES Zoonotic Disease Prioritization Completed OHZDP Workshops One Health Communication Resources What's New About CDC's One Health Office VIEW ALL One Health What's New SOURCES PRINT SHARE One Health CDC’s One Health Office leads the agency’s One Health efforts in the United States and supports One Health activities worldwide.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 17 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una alerta de seguridad de los alimentos acerca de un brote multiestatal vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas:  Puntos clave: Dieciocho estados han notificado 39 casos de personas infectadas por la cepa E.
coli del brote.
Quince personas han sido hospitalizadas y una persona falleció.
Las entrevistas con las personas enfermas y los hallazgos de rastreo indican que las zanahorias enteras o minizanahorias orgánicas vendidas por Grimmway Farms están enfermando a las personas.
La compañía Grimmway Farms retiró del mercado las zanahorias implicadas en el brote.
Se retiraron del mercado varias marcas y tamaños de zanahorias enteras y minizanahorias orgánicas en bolsas.
Estos productos ya no se están vendiendo en las tiendas pero las personas podrían todavía tenerlas en sus casas.
Revisen sus refrigeradores por si las tienen y bótenlas.
Lo que debe hacer: No consuma ninguna de las zanahorias orgánicas en bolsa retiradas del mercado.
Si tiene síntomas graves de infección por E.
coli, busque atención médica y dígale a su proveedor lo que comió.
Los negocios no deberían usar las zanahorias orgánicas en bolsas retiradas del mercado.
Síntomas de E.
coli: La mayoría de las personas infectadas por bacterias E.
coli productoras de la toxina de Shiga presentan cólicos estomacales fuertes, diarrea (a menudo con sangre) y vómitos.
Es posible que algunas personas presenten problemas graves en los riñones (síndrome urémico hemolítico, también llamado HUS en inglés) y deban ser hospitalizadas.
Para obtener más información sobre las bacterias E.
coli, consulte: Acerca de la infección por Escherichia coli.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a productos de carne y pollo listos para comer.
Los CDC confirman infección por influenza aviar H5N1 en un niño en California California confirma el primer caso de viruela símica (mpox) clado I.
Los casos de sarampión aumentan en todo el mundo: en el 2023 se infectaron 10.3 millones de personas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
California confirma el primer caso de viruela símica (mpox) clado I.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC confirman infección por influenza aviar H5N1 en un niño en California COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 22 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) confirman un caso en seres humanos de la influenza aviar A(H5N1) (gripe aviar H5N1) en un niño en California.
Este es el primer caso notificado de infección por el virus de la influenza aviar H5 en un niño en los Estados Unidos.
Al igual que en los casos identificados previamente en seres humanos en los Estados Unidos, se reportó que el niño presentó síntomas leves y recibió medicamentos antivirales contra la influenza.
En la muestra inicial recolectada se detectaron niveles bajos de material viral, y las pruebas de seguimiento en el niño varios días después fueron negativas a la influenza aviar H5 pero positivas a otros virus respiratorios comunes.
El niño se está recuperando de su enfermedad.
La investigación sobre la posible exposición a la fuente de H5N1 por parte del Departamento de Salud Pública de California (CDPH) sigue en curso.
Durante la investigación del CDPH todos los miembros del hogar notificaron síntomas y se recolectaron muestras de todas esas personas.
Todos los resultados de las pruebas de los miembros del hogar fueron negativos al virus de la influenza aviar H5, y algunos miembros de la familia dieron positivo a los mismos virus respiratorios comunes que tenía el niño.
Se sigue realizando el rastreo de contactos, aunque no hay evidencia de propagación de persona a persona del virus de la influenza aviar H5N1 del niño a otras personas.
Hasta la fecha, no se ha identificado propagación de persona a persona asociada a ninguno de los casos de influenza aviar H5N1 notificados en los Estados Unidos.
Este caso se detectó mediante pruebas de influenza y se reportó al CDPH a través de la vigilancia de la influenza.
Este es el segundo caso en los Estados Unidos identificado a través de la vigilancia nacional.
Los CDC continúan monitoreando de cerca los datos disponibles de los sistemas de vigilancia de la influenza, particularmente en los estados afectados por brotes en animales, como California, en cuyo estado se han detectado amplios brotes de la influenza aviar H5N1 en aves silvestres y domésticas desde el 2022, y en rebaños de ganado lechero desde agosto del 2024.
Las infecciones por el virus de la influenza H5N1 en seres humanos limitadas y esporádicas, en casos en que no se ha identificado la exposición animal, son muy poco comunes pero se han presentado, principalmente en países diferentes a los Estados Unidos.
Estas situaciones resaltan la importancia de la vigilancia y las investigaciones continuas a nivel local, estatal y federal.
Incluido el caso más reciente, se han notificado 55 casos de la influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos en los Estados Unidos durante el 2024, con 29 casos en California.
La evaluación del riesgo de los CDC indica que el riesgo es bajo para el público en general.
Sin embargo, las personas con exposición a animales infectados o posiblemente infectados, como aves, vacas lecheras u otros animales (incluido el ganado), o a entornos contaminados por aves u otros animales infectados, están en mayor riesgo de infección.
Los CDC recomiendan evitar las exposiciones sin protección a los animales enfermos o muertos; esto incluye a las aves silvestres, las aves de corral, otras aves domesticadas y otros animales silvestres o domesticados (incluidas las vacas).
Los CDC continuarán proporcionando actualizaciones a medida que se disponga de información adicional.
Para obtener más información, consulte la declaración de California El estado notifica un posible caso de infección por el virus de la influenza aviar en un niño con síntomas leves .
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Salmonella vinculado a pepinos Los CDC advierten sobre un brote de Listeria vinculado a productos de carne y pollo listos para comer.
Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas California confirma el primer caso de viruela símica (mpox) clado I.
VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Food Safety EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Risk Factors Preventing Food Poisoning Educational Materials and Videos Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Information for Healthcare Professionals VIEW ALL Public Health Foodborne Illness Burden Foodborne Illness Sources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Restaurant Food Safety | About Norovirus | Foodborne outbreaks View All For Everyone MAY 2, 2024 Antimicrobial Resistance, Food, and Food Animals AT A GLANCE Learn how antimicrobial-resistant bacteria can spread to people from food and animals.
Find out prevention steps.
Why it's important The American food supply is among the safest in the world, but people can still get food poisoning by eating contaminated foods.
Some of the bacteria that cause food poisoning are antimicrobial-resistant—meaning certain medicines do not kill the bacteria.
A person with a foodborne infection caused by antimicrobial-resistant bacteria will have similar symptoms to infections caused by the same type of bacteria that can be killed by antibiotics.
Food poisoning symptoms can be mild to life-threatening.
Most people with food poisoning do not need antibiotics to get better and clear the infection.
How antimicrobial-resistant bacteria can spread to people Antibiotic drugs save lives, but their use can contribute to the development of antimicrobial-resistant germs.
Antimicrobial resistance spreads between people, animals, and the environment (for example, in water and soil).
Stopping the development and spread of antimicrobial resistance is a key action to protect people, along with preventing infections and improving antibiotic use.
Animals, like people, carry germs in their guts.
This includes antimicrobial-resistant germs, which can get in food in several ways: When animals are slaughtered and processed for food, antimicrobial-resistant germs can contaminate meat or other animal products, for example, by spreading from contaminated processing equipment or storage bins.
Animal feces/excrement (poop) can contain resistant germs and get into the surrounding environment.
Fruits and vegetables can get contaminated through contact with soil, water, or fertilizer that contains animal feces/excrement.
People can get intestinal infections, including antimicrobial-resistant infections, by handling or eating contaminated food, or coming in contact with untreated or uncomposted animal poop.
People can come in contact with animal poop either through direct contact with animals and animal environments or through contaminated drinking or swimming water.
Infections can also spread between people.
In recent years, CDC has investigated many multistate outbreaks caused by antimicrobial-resistant germs.
These outbreaks have been linked to contaminated food and contact with food animals, pets, and pet food, and treats.
What CDC is doing CDC leads the U.S.
public health response to combat antimicrobial resistance.
CDC's Antimicrobial Resistance (AR) Solutions Initiative invests in national infrastructure to detect, respond to, contain, and prevent resistant infections, including in the food supply.
Efforts include: Tracking antimicrobial-resistant infections and studying how resistance emerges and spreads.
Detecting and investigating outbreaks of antimicrobial-resistant infections quickly to identify their sources and stop their spread.
Determining the sources of antimicrobial-resistant infections that are commonly spread through food and animals.
Strengthening the ability of state and local health departments to detect, respond to, and report antimicrobial-resistant infections.
Educating the public and food workers on prevention methods, including safe food handling, safe contact with animals, and proper handwashing.
Ensuring veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and other animal industries such as aquaculture have tools, information, and training around the appropriate use of antibiotic and antifungal drugs.
Supporting the important work that the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and U.S.
Department of Agriculture are doing to improve antibiotic and antifungal drug use in veterinary medicine and agriculture.
Resources National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States, 2019 CDC Actions to Prevent the Spread of Antimicrobial Resistance in Enteric Bacteria Video: Antibiotic Resistance and Food ON THIS PAGE Why it's important How antimicrobial-resistant bacteria can spread to people What CDC is doing Resources RELATED PAGES Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning Chicken and Food Poisoning Keep Food Safe After Disaster/Emergency Raw Milk Safer Food Choices VIEW ALL Food Safety Raw Milk SOURCES PRINT SHARE Food Safety Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick.
Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Food Safety EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Risk Factors Preventing Food Poisoning Educational Materials and Videos Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Information for Healthcare Professionals VIEW ALL Public Health Foodborne Illness Burden Foodborne Illness Sources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Restaurant Food Safety | About Norovirus | Foodborne outbreaks View All For Everyone APRIL 24, 2024 ESPAÑOL Keep Food Safe After a Disaster or Emergency WHAT TO KNOW Foods may be unsafe to eat after a disaster or emergency.
To prevent foodborne illness, prepare for emergencies and take key steps during and after power outages, floods, and other emergencies.
Why it's important If you are in a disaster or emergency, take steps to prevent illness from unsafe food.
Refrigerated or frozen foods may not be safe to eat after a loss of power.
Food that may have had contact with floodwater or storm water may also be unsafe to eat.
Find out what you can do to keep food safe after an emergency or disaster.
Prepare for emergencies Keep appliance thermometers in your refrigerator and freezer.
The refrigerator should be at 40°F or below.
The freezer should be at 0°F or below.
Freeze containers of water and gel packs to help keep food at 40°F or below.
Have a cooler and frozen gel packs ready in case you have to remove food from the refrigerator to keep it cold.
Buy dry ice or block ice to keep food cold in the refrigerator if you think the power could be out for a long time.
Steps to take during a power outage Keep refrigerator and freezer doors closed.
If the doors stay closed, food will stay safe up to: 4 hours in a refrigerator, 48 hours in a full freezer, 24 hours in a half-full freezer.
If the power has been out for 4 hours, and a cooler and ice are available, put refrigerated perishable foods in the cooler.
To keep them at 40°F or below, add ice or a cold source like frozen gel packs.
Steps to take after a power outage Never taste food to know if it is safe to eat.
When in doubt, throw it out.
Throw out perishable food in your refrigerator (meat, fish, cut fruits and vegetables, eggs, milk, and leftovers) after 4 hours without power or without a cold source like ice.
Throw out any food with an unusual smell, color, or texture.
If you have an appliance thermometer in your refrigerator, check to see if it is still at 40 °F or below.
Check temperatures of food kept in coolers or your refrigerator with an added cold source.
Throw out food that has thawed or is above 40°.
You can safely refreeze or cook thawed frozen food that still contains ice crystals or is at 40 °F or below.
Check this FoodSafety.gov chart for a list of what foods you should throw out and foods you can refreeze.
Steps to take after a flood Throw away these foods: Perishable food that has not been refrigerated or frozen properly due to power outages Food that may have come in contact with floodwater or stormwater Food with an unusual smell, color, or texture Food in packages that are not waterproof Food in cardboard containers, including juice/milk/baby formula boxes Food containers with screw caps, snap lids, crimped caps, twist caps, flip tops, and snap tops Home-canned foods and canned foods or food containers that are bulging, open, or damaged Throw out cans or food containers that spurt liquid or foam when you open them or contain food that is discolored, moldy, or smells bad Unsafe food can make you sick even if it looks and smells normal.
When in doubt, throw it out!
How to save commercially prepared food in cans and plastic or metal pouches (like flexible, shelf-stable juice packages) Remove labels if possible.
Note the expiration date.
Brush or wipe away dirt or silt.
Wash cans and pouches with hot, soapy water.
Rinse cans and pouches with clean, safe water.
Sanitize cans and pouches in one of two ways: Place them in a solution of 1 cup (8 oz/240 mL) of unscented household bleach in 5 gallons of water for 15 minutes, OR Put in a pot of water, bring to a boil, and continue boiling for 2 minutes.
Re-label cans or pouches with a marker.
Include the expiration date.
Use food in cans or pouches as soon as possible.
Clean and sanitize food-contact surfaces that have been flooded.
Throw out wooden cutting boards, baby bottle nipples, and pacifiers if they have come into contact with floodwaters.
Sanitizing methods are not effective for removing contaminates in floodwater from these items.
Clean and sanitize dishes, utensils, and other surfaces that touch food (like refrigerator drawers or kitchen countertops) in a four-step process: Wash with hot, soapy water.
Rinse with clean, safe water.
Sanitize: Make a solution of 1 cup (8 oz/240 mL) of unscented household chlorine bleach in 5 gallons of clean water.
Soak items for 1 minute in the beach solution (solution should completely cover the items).
For items that you can't put in the solution (like countertops), apply solution with a cloth.
Allow to air dry.
Resources Printable Fact Sheet: Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage (English) (Spanish) (Additional Languages) Prevent Food Poisoning Higher Risk for Food Poisoning ON THIS PAGE Why it's important Prepare for emergencies Steps to take during a power outage Steps to take after a power outage Steps to take after a flood Resources RELATED PAGES Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning Raw Flour and Dough Chicken and Food Poisoning Antimicrobial Resistance, Food, and Animals Raw Milk VIEW ALL Food Safety Antimicrobial Resistance, Food, and Animals SOURCES PRINT SHARE Food Safety Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick.
Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
One Health EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About One Health VIEW ALL Public Health About CDC's One Health Office One Health Publications Stories Trainings and Events Zoonoses & One Health Updates (ZOHU) Call Webinar Series One Health Communication Resources Zoonotic Disease Prioritization What's New VIEW ALL Related Topics: Home | National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) View All Completed OHZDP Workshops Public Health MAY 27, 2025 PURPOSE This page includes a collection of reports and priority zoonotic disease lists developed by countries, regions, and other areas that have held One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) workshops.
Overview The following are reports, publications, and priority zoonotic disease lists developed by countries, regions, and other areas that have held One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization (OHZDP) workshops.
These workshops were conducted using the CDC-developed OHZDP Process.
Commonly prioritized zoonotic diseases around the world include rabies, zoonotic influenza viruses, brucellosis, viral hemorrhagic fevers such as Ebola virus and Rift Valley fever, anthrax, and zoonotic tuberculosis.
Disclaimer Reports for CDC-facilitated workshops are posted with permission from the country or host organization after a government review and approval process.
Note that some OHZDP workshops included in this list were conducted independently without CDC facilitation, but by CDC-trained external facilitators.
Workshop reports Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Alaska Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Alaska Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Bangladesh Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Bangladesh Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Burkina Faso Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Burkina...
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Burkina Faso (French) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Burkina Faso.
Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral One Health Collaboration in Cambodia This workshop summary details the One Health prioritization approach in Cambodia.
Download Preparedness & Response: Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Inter-sectoral Engagement in Cameroon Preparedness & Response: Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Inter-sectoral Engagement in Cameroon Download Preparedness & Response: Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Inter-sectoral Engagement in Cameroon (French) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Cameroon.
Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral One Health Collaboration in Colombia Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Colombia.
Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral One Health Collaboration in Colombia (Spanish) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Colombia.
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multi-sectoral Engagement in Côte d’Ivoire Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multi-sectoral Engagement in Côte d...
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multi-sectoral Engagement in Côte d’Ivoire (French) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Côte d’Ivoire.
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Region Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in the Eco...
Download Workshop Summary: Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Inter-sectoral Engagement in Ethiopia Workshop Summary: Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Inter-sectoral Engagement in Ethiopia Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Ghana Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Ghana Download Prioritizing zoonotic diseases utilizing the One Health approach: Jordan's experience Priority diseases: Rabies, MERS-CoV, avian influenza, brucellosis, leishmaniasis, rickettsiosis, and salmonellosis Prioritization of Zoonotic Diseases in Kenya, 2015 Priority diseases: anthrax, trypanosomiasis, rabies, brucellosis, Rift Valley fever Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mali Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mali Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mali (French) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Mali.
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mozambique Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mozambique Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Mozambique (Portuguese) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Mozambique.
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization & One Health Systems Mapping and Analysis Resource Toolkit™ for Multisectoral Engagement in Pakistan Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Pakistan.
Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multisectoral Engagement in Tanzania Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Tanzania.
Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral One Health Collaboration in Thailand Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Thailand Download Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multi-Sectoral Engagement in Uganda Workshop Summary: One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization for Multi-Sectoral Engagement in Uganda Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in the Ukraine Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Ukraine Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in the United States Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in the United States.
Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in Uzbekistan (English) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Uzbekistan Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in Uzbekistan (Uzbek) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Uzbekistan Download Workshop Summary: Prioritizing Zoonotic Diseases for Multisectoral, One Health Collaboration in Uzbekistan (Russian) Access the workshop summary for One Health's prioritization approach in Uzbekistan Download Priority zoonotic diseases Priority zoonotic diseases are listed for the countries that completed workshops but do not have reports available.
Expand All Azerbaijan China Democratic Republic of the Congo Ethiopia Indonesia Rwanda Senegal Sierra Leone South Africa Sudan Thailand Uzbekistan ON THIS PAGE Overview Workshop reports Priority zoonotic diseases SOURCES PRINT SHARE One Health CDC’s One Health Office leads the agency’s One Health efforts in the United States and supports One Health activities worldwide.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los casos de sarampión aumentan en todo el mundo: en el 2023 se infectaron 10.3 millones de personas COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 14 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  14 de noviembre del 2024 | Atlanta / Ginebra.
De acuerdo con nuevas estimaciones de la Organización Mundial de la Salud (OMS) y los Centros para el Control y Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC), en el 2023 hubo una cifra estimada de 10.3 millones de casos de sarampión a nivel mundial, un aumento del 20 % desde el 2022.
La cobertura insuficiente de vacunación a nivel mundial está provocando el aumento de casos.
El sarampión es prevenible con dos dosis de la vacuna; sin embargo, en el 2023, a más de 22 millones de niños no les pusieron la primera dosis de la vacuna.
A nivel mundial, se estima que el 83 % de niños recibieron la primera dosis de la vacuna contra el sarampión el año pasado, mientras que solo el 74 % recibió la segunda dosis recomendada.
Se necesita una cobertura del 95 % o más de las dos dosis de la vacuna contra el sarampión en cada país y comunidad para prevenir brotes y proteger a la población de uno de los virus humanos más contagiosos del mundo.
"La vacuna contra el sarampión ha salvado más vidas que cualquier otra vacuna en los últimos 50 años," dijo el Dr.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director general de la OMS.
"Para salvar incluso más vidas y detener este virus mortal para que no cause daño a las personas más vulnerables, debemos invertir en la vacunación para todas las personas, sin importar dónde vivan", agregó.
"La cantidad de infecciones de sarampión están aumentando en todo el mundo, lo cual pone en peligro las vidas y la salud", dijo la directora de los CDC, Dra.
Mandy Cohen.
"La vacuna contra el sarampión es nuestra mejor protección contra el virus, y debemos seguir invirtiendo en los esfuerzos para aumentar el acceso", afirmó.
Como resultado de brechas mundiales en la cobertura de vacunación, 57 países tuvieron brotes de sarampión grandes o disruptivos en el 2023 que afectaron todas las regiones excepto las Américas, y que representaron un aumento de casi un 60 % con respecto a los 36 países del año anterior.
Las regiones de África, el Mediterráneo Oriental, Europa, Asia Sudoriental y el Pacífico Occidental de la OMS tuvieron un aumento considerable de casos.
Casi la mitad de todos los brotes grandes y disruptivos ocurrieron en la región de África.
Una cantidad inaceptable de muertes debido al aumento de casos de sarampión Los nuevos datos muestran que se estima que 107 500 personas, la mayoría de ellas niños menores de 5 años, murieron a causa del sarampión en el 2023.
Si bien esta es una disminución del 8 % en comparación con el año anterior, demasiados niños aún mueren a causa de esta enfermedad prevenible.
Esta leve reducción en la cantidad de muertes se debió principalmente a que el aumento de casos ocurrió en países y regiones en los que los niños con sarampión tienen menos probabilidades de morir gracias al mejor estado nutricional y el mejor acceso a los servicios de salud.
Incluso cuando las personas sobreviven al sarampión, pueden presentarse graves efectos en la salud, algunos de los cuales duran toda la vida.
Los bebés y niños pequeños son los que tienen el mayor riesgo de presentar complicaciones graves por la enfermedad, lo que incluye ceguera, neumonía y encefalitis (una infección que causa inflamación del cerebro y posiblemente daño al cerebro).
A medida que aumentan los casos y los brotes de sarampión, la meta de eliminación en el mundo, como se establece en la Agenda de Inmunización 2030, está bajo amenaza.
A nivel mundial, 82 países habían logrado o mantenido la eliminación del sarampión a fines del 2023.
Apenas esta semana, se volvió a verificar que Brasil ha eliminado el sarampión, lo cual hace que, una vez más, la región de las Américas de la OMS esté libre del sarampión endémico.
Con la excepción de la región de África, al menos 1 país en todas las regiones de la OMS ha eliminado la enfermedad.
Se necesitan esfuerzos urgentes y específicos por parte de países y colaboradores, en particular en las regiones de África y del Mediterráneo Oriental, y en entornos frágiles y vulnerables afectados por conflictos, para vacunar completamente a todos los niños con dos dosis de la vacuna contra el sarampión.
Esto requiere lograr y mantener programas de vacunación de rutina de alto rendimiento, y llevar a cabo campañas de alta cobertura y alta calidad cuando esos programas aún no sean suficientes para proteger a todos los niños.
Los países y los colaboradores para la vacunación global también deben fortalecer la vigilancia de enfermedades, incluida la Red Mundial de Laboratorios para la Detección del Sarampión y la Rubéola (GMRLN, por sus siglas en inglés).
La sólida vigilancia de enfermedades es esencial para optimizar los programas de vacunación y detectar los brotes de sarampión y responder rápidamente a fin de mitigar su tamaño e impacto.
Nota para los editores El Progreso hacia la Eliminación Regional del Sarampión a nivel mundial, 2000-2023, es una publicación conjunta de la OMS y los CDC.
Se publica dentro del Registro Epidemiológico Semanal de la OMS y el Informe Semanal de Morbilidad y Mortalidad de los CDC.
Los CDC y la OMS usan la modelización estadística para estimar los casos y muertes a causa del sarampión cada año, con base en los casos notificados por los países, y revisan las cifras estimadas del año anterior a fin de evaluar las tendencias de la enfermedad a lo largo del tiempo.
Los CDC y la OMS son miembros fundadores de la Alianza contra el Sarampión y la Rubéola (M&RP, por sus siglas en inglés), una iniciativa global para detener el sarampión y la rubéola.
En el marco de la Agenda de Inmunización 2030 y bajo la guía del Marco estratégico para el sarampión y la rubéola 2030 , la misión de la M&RP incluye abordar la disminución en la cobertura nacional de vacunas, acelerar la recuperación de la reincidencia del sarampión causada por la pandemia de COVID-19 e impulsar el progreso hacia la creación de un mundo libre del sarampión y la rubéola.
La alianza también incluye la Cruz Roja Americana , la Fundación Bill y Melinda Gates , la Alianza Mundial para Vacunas e Inmunizaciones (GAVI, por sus siglas en inglés) , la Fundación de las Naciones Unidas y UNICEF .
La eliminación del sarampión se define como la ausencia de la transmisión endémica del virus del sarampión en una región u otra área definida geográficamente por más de 12 meses.
Por otro lado, ya no se considera que un país está libre de sarampión si el virus vuelve y la transmisión se sostiene continuamente por más de un año.
Para obtener más información sobre los esfuerzos globales de los CDC para la vacunación contra el sarampión, visite 
Para obtener más información sobre la respuesta y apoyo de la OMS para el sarampión, visite  .
Enlaces relacionados Progreso hacia la Eliminación del Sarampión a nivel mundial, 2000-2023 Contacto para los medios de comunicación OMS: Mediainquiries@who.int CDC: Media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas California confirma el primer caso de viruela símica (mpox) clado I.
A pesar de que en el 2023 se notificaron más de 2 millones de infecciones detransmisión sexual, los datos de los CDC parecen indicar que la epidemia de infecciones de transmisión sexual se podría estar desacelerando Transcripción de la teleconferencia del MMWR:Evidencia de recientes infecciones por el virus de la influenza aviar H5 entre trabajadores de granjas lecheras y actualizaciones de las directrices de los CDC VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
A pesar de que en el 2023 se notificaron más de 2 millones de infecciones detransmisión sexual, los datos de los CDC parecen indicar que la epidemia de infecciones de transmisión sexual se podría estar desacelerando FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) California confirma el primer caso de viruela símica (mpox) clado I DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 16 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC recibirán muestras para caracterización viral adicional El Departamento de Salud Pública de California confirmó , a través de pruebas de laboratorio, el primer caso conocido de viruela símica (mpox) clado I en los Estados Unidos.
Este caso está relacionado con un brote actual de viruela símica clado I en África Central y África Oriental.
El riesgo que presenta la viruela símica clado I al público sigue siendo bajo, y continúa habiendo casos esporádicos de viruela símica clado II en los Estados Unidos.
El caso se diagnosticó en una persona que llegó recientemente de África Oriental.
La persona recibió tratamiento poco después de regresar a los Estados Unidos en un centro médico local y se le dio el alta.
Desde entonces, la persona se ha aislado en su casa, no está recibiendo tratamiento específico para la viruela símica y los síntomas están mejorando.
Con base en sus antecedentes de viajes y síntomas, se analizaron las muestras del paciente y se confirmó la presencia del virus de la viruela símica clado I.
Se están enviando muestras a los CDC para caracterización viral adicional.
Además, los CDC están trabajando con el estado para identificar contactos potenciales y hacerles seguimiento.
Es poco probable que el contacto casual, como el que se puede tener al viajar, presente riesgos significativos de transmisión de la viruela símica.
Las directrices de los CDC no han cambiado mientras se sigue investigando este caso.
Protéjase del virus de la viruela símica al hacer lo siguiente: Evitar el contacto cercano con personas enfermas con síntomas de viruela símica, incluidas aquellas con lesiones en la piel o genitales.
Evitar el contacto con materiales contaminados usados por personas enfermas (como ropa, ropa de cama, cepillos de dientes, juguetes sexuales o materiales usados en entornos de atención médica).
Y si es elegible, ponerse las dos dosis recomendadas de la vacuna contra la viruela símica.
Hay dos tipos de viruela símica, el clado I (con los subclados Ia y Ib) y el clado II (con los subclados IIa y IIb; el IIb fue el causante del brote global actual).
No se puede saber qué tipo de viruela símica tiene una persona con solo verla.
Los brotes de los distintos subclados pueden tener distintas características, como a quiénes afectan, cómo se propagan o cuántas muertes causan.
Aunque la viruela símica clado II ha estado circulando en los Estados Unidos desde el 2022, el clado I nunca se había notificado en el país hasta ahora.
Se han notificado casos del subclado Ib asociados a viajes en Alemania, India, Kenia, Suecia, Tailandia, Zimbabue y el Reino Unido.
Históricamente, la viruela símica clado I ha causado más casos de enfermedad grave y muertes que el clado II; sin embargo, datos recientes muestran que las infecciones de la viruela símica clado I en el brote actual podrían no ser tan clínicamente graves como en los brotes anteriores.
Aunque los brotes de viruela símica clado I solían tener tasas de mortalidad de entre el 3 % y el 11 %, brotes más recientes han tenido tasas tan bajas como aproximadamente 1 % cuando los pacientes recibieron buena supervisión médica y buena atención médica de apoyo.
Se anticipa que las tasas de mortalidad sean mucho más bajas en países con sistemas de atención médica y opciones de tratamiento más sólidos, incluidos los Estados Unidos.
Todos los casos recientes de viruela símica clado I asociados a viajes fuera de África han sido atribuidos al subclado Ib; no ha habido muertes relacionadas con estos casos y los datos disponibles de un subconjunto han detallado un curso de enfermedad relativamente leve.
Las personas con viruela símica a menudo presentan un sarpullido que podría aparecer en las manos, los pies, el pecho, la cara, la boca o cerca de los genitales, incluidos el pene, los testículos, los labios de la vulva, la vagina y el ano.
El periodo de incubación es de 3 a 17 días.
Durante este periodo, las personas no tienen síntomas y podrían sentirse bien.
El riesgo general anticipado de viruela símica clado I para la población general de los Estados Unidos a causa del brote en África Central y África Oriental es bajo.
A principios de este año, los CDC hicieron una evaluación de riesgos que incluyó datos epidemiológicos de África Central y África Oriental, datos del brote actual de viruela símica en los Estados Unidos causado por el clado IIb y datos históricos sobre los brotes de viruela símica clado I en la República Democrática del Congo y otros países afectados.
Además, los CDC han simulado brotes de viruela símica clado I.
Estas simulaciones indican que es poco probable que las transmisiones por contacto cercano dentro y entre hogares den como resultado una gran cantidad de casos de viruela símica del clado I en los Estados Unidos.
Además, en Suecia, Tailandia, Alemania e India, no hubo una propagación posterior aparente del virus, y la propagación posterior en el Reino Unido ha sido limitada a los contactos cercanos en el hogar por el momento.
Los CDC continúan trabajando en África Central y África Oriental para ayudar a detener la transmisión de la viruela símica en su origen.
Este trabajo continuo incluye capacitación del personal de laboratorio, suministros para las pruebas de diagnóstico (incluida la secuenciación genética), capacitación de los trabajadores de la salud de primera línea y epidemiológicos, apoyo para la vigilancia de personas y animales, apoyo para la prevención y el control de infecciones, comunicación de riesgos y participación comunitaria y ayuda técnica directa durante los brotes, además de colaboraciones en investigaciones.
Los CDC tienen más de dos años de experiencia en responder a la viruela símica en los Estados Unidos debido al brote actual global de viruela símica clado II del 2022, y han modificado los sistemas y las estructuras de salud pública nacionales existentes para poder responder a cualquier brote de viruela símica clado I en el país.
A principios de este año, los CDC crearon una guía para los viajeros que vayan a países en África Central y África Oriental que tengan brotes.
Los CDC continúan recomendando que los médicos soliciten pruebas específicas de clado aceleradas para los casos presuntos de viruela símica clado I con antecedentes de viajes a África Central y África Oriental.
Los CDC también están ayudando a las comunidades a monitorear la presencia de ambos clados de la viruela símica en muestras de aguas residuales.
Los datos de las muestras pueden servir de advertencia temprana de la actividad y propagación de la viruela símica en las comunidades.
Los CDC combinan los datos de las aguas residuales con otros datos para decidir si se necesitan más pruebas u otras medidas en conjunto con colaboradores de salud pública locales y estatales.
Hay más información disponible sobre la viruela símica en línea en Mpox | Mpox | CDC.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC confirman infección por influenza aviar H5N1 en un niño en California Los CDC advierten sobre un nuevo brote de E.
coli vinculado a zanahorias orgánicas Los casos de sarampión aumentan en todo el mundo: en el 2023 se infectaron 10.3 millones de personas A pesar de que en el 2023 se notificaron más de 2 millones de infecciones detransmisión sexual, los datos de los CDC parecen indicar que la epidemia de infecciones de transmisión sexual se podría estar desacelerando VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los casos de sarampión aumentan en todo el mundo: en el 2023 se infectaron 10.3 millones de personas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Food Safety EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Risk Factors Preventing Food Poisoning Educational Materials and Videos Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Information for Healthcare Professionals VIEW ALL Public Health Foodborne Illness Burden Foodborne Illness Sources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Restaurant Food Safety | About Norovirus | Foodborne outbreaks View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 Safer Food Choices AT A GLANCE Learn which foods are more often associated with food poisoning and what are safer choices.
Why it's important To prevent food poisoning, some foods are safer choices than others.
That's because some foods—such as undercooked meat and eggs, unwashed fruits and vegetables, and unpasteurized milk—are more often associated with foodborne illnesses.
High risk groups Some people are more likely to get sick and have a more serious illness from food poisoning.
See specific recommendations if you are in one of these groups: Adults 65 years or older Children under age 5 People with weakened immune systems Pregnant women Safer food choices for general public Use the table below as a guide to safer food choices.
Poultry and Meat Riskier Choice Safer Choice Raw or undercooked poultry or meat Poultry includes chicken and turkey Meat includes beef, pork, lamb, and veal Poultry and meat cooked to a safe internal temperature .
Use a food thermometer to check.
All poultry, including ground chicken and ground turkey, cooked to 165°F Whole cuts of beef, veal, lamb, and pork cooked to 145°F (then allow the meat to rest for 3 minutes before carving or eating) Ground meat, including beef and pork, cooked to 160°F Vegetables and Fruits Riskier Choice Safer Choice Any raw or undercooked sprouts, such as alfalfa and bean Unwashed fresh fruits and vegetables, including lettuce and other leafy greens Cut melon left out for more than 2 hours (1 hour if it’s exposed to temperatures hotter than 90°F, such as a picnic or hot car) Cooked sprouts (until steaming hot) Washed vegetables and fruits (washed and then cooked are safest) Freshly cut melon or cut melon kept refrigerated for 7 or fewer days Juice Riskier Choice Safer Choice Unpasteurized juice or cider Pasteurized juice or cider Unpasteurized juice or cider brought to a rolling boil for at least 1 minute before drinking Milk Riskier Choice Safer Choice Unpasteurized (raw) milk and dairy products made from raw milk Pasteurized milk and dairy products made from pasteurized milk Cheese Riskier Choice Safer Choice Soft cheese made from unpasteurized (raw) milk — for example, queso fresco, brie, camembert, and blue-veined cheese Hard cheese, such as Asiago, Cheddar, Parmesan, or Swiss/Gruyere/Emmental Cottage cheese, cream cheese, string cheese, and feta Processed cheese, such as American cheese Soft cheese that is clearly labeled “made from pasteurized milk” Eggs Riskier Choice Safer Choice Raw or undercooked (runny) eggs, and foods that contain raw or undercooked eggs, such as Caesar salad dressing Raw cookie dough Homemade eggnog Eggs cooked until the yolks and whites are firm Egg dishes (frittata, quiche, casserole) cooked to an internal temperature of 165°F if they contain meat or poultry Egg dishes cooked to an internal temperature of 160°F if they do not contain meat or poultry Pasteurized eggs in foods that will not be cooked to a safe temperature, such as mousse and salad dressing Seafood Riskier Choice Safer Choice Raw or undercooked fish or shellfish, including sashimi, sushi, and ceviche Fish cooked to a safe internal temperature of 145°F or until the flesh is opaque and separates easily with a fork Shellfish cooked until shells open during cooking or until flesh is pearly or white, and opaque Flour Riskier Choice Safer Choice Raw dough or raw batter made with raw (uncooked) flour Food made with flour that is cooked following the package directions or recipe Dough and batter made with heat-treated flour and pasteurized eggs Dough and batter that is labeled “edible” or “safe to eat raw” Safer Food Choices for General Consumers Information on which foods are safer to consume and which are more likely to cause food poisoning fo...
MAY 2, 2024 Download Prevent food poisoning Always follow the four steps to food safety—clean, separate, cook, and chill—to protect yourself from food poisoning.
Learn about current foodborne outbreaks and the foods linked to them.
Resources Higher Risk for Food Poisoning Four Steps to Food Safety Food Poisoning Symptoms FoodSafety.gov: Safe Minimum Internal Temperature ON THIS PAGE Why it's important High risk groups Safer food choices for general public Prevent food poisoning Resources RELATED PAGES Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning Antimicrobial Resistance, Food, and Animals Raw Milk Safer Food for Pregnant Women Safer Food for People with Weakened Immune Systems VIEW ALL Food Safety Safer Food for Pregnant Women SOURCES PRINT SHARE Food Safety Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick.
Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Food Safety EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Risk Factors Preventing Food Poisoning Educational Materials and Videos Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Information for Healthcare Professionals VIEW ALL Public Health Foodborne Illness Burden Foodborne Illness Sources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Restaurant Food Safety | About Norovirus | Foodborne outbreaks View All For Everyone MARCH 21, 2024 Eat Safe Food After a Power Outage WHAT TO KNOW Learn how to keep your food safe during a power outage.
Format: PDF Page count: 1 Language: English (US) Size: 2 MB View Additional languages Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Arabic Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Chinese Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - French Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Haitian Creole Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Spanish Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Tagalog Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Eat Safe Food after a Power Outage - Vietnamese Information on how to practice food safety after a power outage Download Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning SOURCES PRINT SHARE Food Safety Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick.
Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Transcripción de la teleconferencia del MMWR: Evidencia de recientes infecciones por el virus de la influenza aviar H5 entre trabajadores de granjas lecheras y actualizaciones de las directrices de los CDC TRANSCRIPCIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 13 de noviembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Tenga en cuenta: Esta transcripción no está editada y podría tener errores.
Operadora - 00:00 Bienvenidos y gracias por estar pendientes.
En este momento, todos los participantes están en modo de escucha solamente hasta que comience la sesión de preguntas y respuestas de la conferencia de hoy.
En ese momento, podrán presionar asterisco y luego el uno en su teléfono para hacer una pregunta.
Quisiera informar a todas las partes que la conferencia de hoy está siendo grabada.
Si tienen alguna objeción, pueden desconectarse en este momento.
Ahora quisiera darle la palabra a Benjamin Haynes.
Gracias, quizás de nuevo.
Moderador 00:23 Gracias, Courtney, y gracias a todos por acompañarnos hoy cuando publicamos un nuevo MMWR y directrices actualizadas de los CDC sobre los brotes de influenza aviar H5N1.
Hoy nos acompaña el doctor Demetre C.
Daskalakis, director del Centro Nacional de Vacunación y Enfermedades Respiratorias, y el subdirector principal de los CDC, doctor Nirav Shah.
Quisiera recordarles a todos que esta teleconferencia está embargada hasta la 1 p.
hora del este, cuando nuestro MMWR se publique en el sitio web de los CDC.
Ahora le pasaré la línea al doctor Daskalakis.
Daskalakis - 00:58 Gracias y buenos días a todos.
En primer lugar, proporcionaré una actualización sobre los casos de H5 en los Estados Unidos.
Luego compartiremos algunos hallazgos que se publicarán en un MMWR más tarde hoy.
Así que primero, la información general de la situación.
Hasta la fecha, ha habido 46 casos humanos de H5 en los EE.
en el 2024; 25 casos fueron debido al brote actual en vacas lecheras.
20, de los cuales, 21 de los cuales ocurrieron en California.
20 casos son consecuencia de la despoblación avícola, incluidos los 11 casos recientes del estado de Washington.
Además, hay un caso en Misuri sin exposición conocida a animales o a productos animales.
Los CDC siguen evaluando el riesgo para la población en general, que es bajo.
Los esfuerzos para proteger a las personas con exposición a animales o productos animales afectados por el H5 continúan siendo un enfoque clave de nuestras actividades de salud pública.
Ahora me gustaría compartir los resultados de un estudio importante enfocado en los trabajadores, que se publicará en el Informe Semanal de Morbilidad y Mortalidad, o MMWR, más tarde hoy.
Esta es la encuesta a trabajadores de granjas lecheras en Michigan y Colorado; los CDC, en coordinación con los departamentos de salud estatales de Michigan y Colorado, llevaron a cabo una encuesta serológica anonimizada entre trabajadores de granjas lecheras expuestos a vacas lecheras infectadas con influenza A H5N1.
Como recordatorio, una encuesta serológica es la recolección de muestras de sangre, y realización de pruebas, de una población definida.
En este caso, a los trabajadores de granjas lecheras para estimar la prevalencia de anticuerpos contra un patógeno infeccioso, en este caso, H5N1, como un indicador de la posible prevalencia de exposición o inmunidad.
El propósito de la encuesta serológica era ampliar nuestro entendimiento sobre el alcance de las infecciones entre los trabajadores de granjas lecheras expuestos, cómo estas infecciones se relacionaban con los síntomas experimentados por los participantes y qué actividades o acciones estaban asociadas a la infección.
Se recolectaron muestras de sangre desde junio hasta agosto del 2024 de 115 personas que trabajaban en granjas lecheras en Michigan y Colorado con vacas en las que se confirmó un resultado positivo por el virus H5.
35 de las personas incluidas en esta encuesta serológica habían tenido resultados previamente notificados a principios de este verano y, como recordatorio, eran trabajadores de granjas lecheras de Michigan y todos dieron negativo para anticuerpos contra el H5N1.
Se reclutó a 80 personas adicionales en Michigan y Colorado para aumentar el tamaño de la muestra de la encuesta serológica y proporcionar resultados más robustos.
Las muestras se recolectaron entre 15 y 90 días después de que se identificara el virus H5N1 en las vacas de las granjas.
Además de extraerles sangre, se entrevistó a las personas para aprender más sobre lo que hacían en las granjas, qué medidas de protección tomaban y si habían estado enfermas desde que las vacas en sus granjas fueron diagnosticadas con H5N1 o puestas en cuarentena.
Todas las muestras fueron analizadas en busca de anticuerpos contra el virus H5N1 aislado del primer caso humano este año en Texas.
Y también hicimos pruebas en las muestras contra un virus H5N1 estacional, como control positivo.
Ahora, pasando a los resultados, ocho de las 115 muestras, es decir, el 7 %, fueron seropositivas contra la influenza aviar altamente patógena o HPAI, el clado 2.3.4.4b A que vemos circulando entre las vacas lecheras utilizando dos pruebas diferentes de anticuerpos para ser consideradas anticuerpos o seropositivas; ambas pruebas tenían que ser positivas utilizando criterios aceptados.
También se usó otro protocolo de laboratorio para eliminar los anticuerpos de la influenza estacional y descartar que las pruebas positivas de H5N1 fueran debido a reactividad cruzada relacionada con estos virus comúnmente circulantes.
Con respecto a los resultados específicos, 8 de las 115 personas dieron positivo para anticuerpos H5N1 utilizando este protocolo.
De las personas seropositivas, cuatro recordaron haber tenido síntomas, principalmente conjuntivitis.
Los otros cuatro no lo hicieron.
Entre estas cuatro personas, las enfermedades comenzaron antes o poco después de la identificación de los ganados infectados.
Más detalles de quiénes tuvieron resultados positivos.
Los ocho hablaban español.
Todos, los ocho, reportaron ordeñar vacas o limpiar la sala de ordeño, lo que respalda la idea de que estas actividades son las de mayor riesgo.
Ninguno usó protección respiratoria y menos de la mitad usó protección para los ojos, lo que resalta la necesidad de mejores herramientas para apoyar la protección del trabajador.
Solo una persona informó que trabajaba con vacas infectadas, a pesar del hecho de que estaban trabajando con vacas en granjas con infección conocida.
Una limitación importante de los datos de la encuesta es que las entrevistas se realizaron en promedio 49 días después de la primera exposición a las vacas infectadas, con algunos trabajadores entrevistados hasta 90 días después de su primera exposición.
Eso hace que recordar los síntomas menores sea posiblemente difícil.
Sin embargo, estos datos nos ayudan a comprender mejor la posibilidad de infección con síntomas leves o sin síntomas, así como a resaltar intervenciones que podrían ayudar a los trabajadores a reducir su riesgo de exposición e infección por H5N1.
Ahora le pasaré el micrófono al doctor Shah, quien entrará en más detalles sobre las medidas que los CDC están tomando para mitigar aún más el riesgo para las personas que trabajan con animales y productos animales potencialmente afectados por el H5N1.
Doctor Shah.
Nirav Shah - 06:05 Gracias, doctor Daskalakis, y buenos días a todos.
Soy Nirav Shah de los CDC y voy a hablar sobre las medidas que los CDC están tomando a la luz de los resultados serológicos que acaba de describir el doctor Daskalakis.
El propósito de estas medidas es mantener seguros a los trabajadores, limitar la transmisión del H5N1 a los seres humanos y reducir la posibilidad de que el virus cambie en este momento.
Hay dos formas principales en las que las personas en los Estados Unidos están siendo infectadas por el H5N1: mediante la exposición a aves de corral infectadas durante eventos de sacrificio y mediante la exposición a vacas lecheras infectadas durante el proceso de ordeño.
Lo que estamos anunciando hoy es una intensificación de las recomendaciones para centrarse en las tareas con mayor exposición en operaciones avícolas y lecheras, con el fin último de reducir el riesgo de infección.
Estamos haciendo esto en tres áreas.
Número uno, ampliar nuestra recomendación sobre quién debe ser sometido a pruebas de detección de H5N1.
Número dos, una nueva recomendación para el uso de Tamiflu para trabajadores expuestos y asintomáticos.
Y número tres, enfocar nuestras directrices sobre el equipo de protección personal (EPP) para los trabajadores con base en su riesgo de exposición junto con actividades adicionales de capacitación.
Así que comencemos con las pruebas; los datos serológicos que el doctor Daskalakis describió muestran que puede haber personas que se infectaron por el H5, pero que no recuerdan haber tenido síntomas.
Eso significa que nosotros, en salud pública, necesitamos lanzar una red más amplia en términos de a quién se le ofrece una prueba para poder identificar, tratar y aislar a esas personas.
Anteriormente, como parte de una investigación de brote, nos centrábamos en los trabajadores que habían estado expuestos y que presentaban síntomas.
De ahora en adelante, los CDC están ampliando nuestra recomendación de pruebas para incluir a los trabajadores que estuvieron expuestos y que no tienen síntomas, particularmente aquellos trabajadores que estuvieron expuestos sin haber usado el EPP adecuado.
Reiteramos, estamos ampliando nuestra recomendación para incluir a los trabajadores que estuvieron expuestos y que no presentan síntomas, especialmente aquellos que no llevaban puesto el EPP apropiado.
El propósito de esta ampliación, fundamentada en los nuevos datos serológicos, es identificar activamente a los trabajadores expuestos y con H5, incluso si sus síntomas son tan leves como para pasar desapercibidos, de modo que a esos trabajadores también se les pueda ofrecer tratamiento y aislamiento.
Esta búsqueda activa de casos reduce la probabilidad de que una infección leve se convierta en una infección grave o de que la infección se propague a otras personas.
En pocas palabras, cuanto menos espacio le demos a este virus para propagarse, menores serán las probabilidades de que cause daño o de que cambie.
Y la mejor manera de limitar el espacio para que el virus se propague es hacer pruebas, identificar, tratar y aislar tantos casos como sea posible en seres humanos y lo más rápido posible.
En segundo lugar, pasemos a nuestra nueva recomendación sobre medicación para trabajadores expuestos asintomáticos.
Una parte clave de nuestra estrategia es ofrecer tratamiento con Tamiflu a los trabajadores que estuvieron expuestos y que muestran síntomas indicativos de infección por H5N1, pero a la luz de los datos que describió el doctor Daskalakis, los cuales mostraron nuevamente la existencia de personas con síntomas leves o incluso sin síntomas que puedan recordar, los CDC ahora recomiendan ofrecer Tamiflu a trabajadores asintomáticos que tuvieron una exposición de alto riesgo a animales con H5N1 sin haber usado el EPP adecuado.
Nuevamente, estamos ampliando el alcance de a quiénes los CDC recomiendan Tamiflu para incluir ahora a trabajadores que son asintomáticos, que tuvieron una exposición de alto riesgo a un animal infectado por H5N1 sin haber usado el EPP adecuado.
Entonces, ¿qué es una exposición de alto riesgo?
Bueno, eso podría incluir que le salpique leche cruda de vaca a la cara sin protección o, en el entorno avícola, algo que podría haber ocurrido durante un evento de despoblación o sacrificio cuando las personas no estaban usando el EPP apropiado.
Al igual que con nuestra recomendación ampliada de pruebas, el uso más generalizado de Tamiflu logra varios objetivos.
El principal entre ellos es proteger a los trabajadores.
Reduce la probabilidad de que un caso asintomático se vuelva sintomático porque están recibiendo Tamiflu y, así, disminuye el riesgo y las probabilidades de transmisión a contactos cercanos.
Y la tercera cosa es nuestro enfoque en las directrices sobre el EPP para granjas y trabajadores con base en su nivel de riesgo.
Los CDC continúan enfocándose en estrategias de prevención primaria como el EPP para trabajadores con exposiciones ocupacionales potenciales a animales o productos animales infectados por H5 a la luz de los datos serológicos.
Los CDC están actualizando nuestras recomendaciones sobre el EPP para trabajadores con base en su riesgo de exposición laboral hacia adelante.
Las recomendaciones de EPP de los CDC priorizarán qué EPP debe usar un trabajador de granja con base en nuestros datos que indican cuáles tareas presentan el mayor riesgo para la exposición e infección por H5N1; por ejemplo, operaciones de sacrificio o trabajar en la sala de ordeño con animales enfermos o infectados.
En pocas palabras, las actividades con mayor riesgo requerirán el uso de más EPP.
Los CDC han creado recursos adicionales para apoyar la capacitación de los trabajadores sobre el uso del EPP y para explicar su papel en prevenir que el H5N1 de los animales infecte a los seres humanos.
Los CDC seguirán evaluando esta situación y actualizarán nuestras directrices según sea necesario.
Para concluir, lo que hemos discutido hoy es un ejemplo del uso de datos por parte de los CDC para impulsar la acción.
Continuaremos trabajando con colaboradores confiables para llegar a los trabajadores de granjas y a sus empleadores para comunicar estas estrategias de prevención lo más ampliamente posible.
Y finalmente, antes de abrir la sesión a preguntas, anticipamos que publicaremos un informe destacado hoy que contiene estas recomendaciones actualizadas.
Con eso, le devolveremos la palabra a nuestro equipo para las preguntas.
Moderador 12:34 Gracias, doctor Shah.
Estamos listos para comenzar la sesión de preguntas.
Operadora - 12:39 Gracias.
Ahora iniciaremos la sesión de preguntas y respuestas.
Si desean hacer una pregunta, por favor pulsen el asterisco y luego el uno.
Si necesitan retirar su pregunta, presionen estrella y luego el dos.
Reitero, para hacer una pregunta, por favor presionen estrella y luego el uno.
Nuestra primera pregunta es de Brenda Goodman de CNN.
Brenda Goodman – CNN - 12:58 Gracias por tomar mi pregunta y felicitaciones por estos estudios, porque sé que tuvieron algunos obstáculos significativos para llevarlos a cabo.
Tengo una pregunta sobre los ocho trabajadores, ¿se cuentan ahora como casos?
¿O se contarán como casos en el conteo de casos humanos?
Y luego tenía curiosidad.
Al principio, doctor Daskalakis, usted dio una actualización sobre cuántos casos humanos de H5 estaban asociados a la despoblación de aves de corral este año.
¿Por qué cree que estamos viendo muchas más infecciones humanas con la despoblación de aves de corral, ya que hemos tenido H5 en aves de corral antes y creo que solo tuvimos un caso antes de este año?
Daskalakis - 13:38 Excelente.
Gracias por esas preguntas.
En cuanto a la primera pregunta, estos datos serológicos retrospectivos no se notificarán como casos; realmente están mirando retrospectivamente, ayudándonos a aprender, pero no se les llamará casos.
Sobre la segunda pregunta, creo que hay muchas razones por las cuales podríamos estar viendo más enfermedades humanas relacionadas o infecciones humanas relacionadas con las operaciones de sacrificio.
Una es que hay más H5, lo cual es probablemente una de las más importantes.
Tanto en aves silvestres como en aves de corral, estamos viendo un aumento significativo y cuanto mayor sea la carga viral comunitaria de H5 en los animales, más probable es que los seres humanos estén expuestos.
Creo que la segunda es que también hemos llamado mucho la atención para evaluar cuidadosamente a las personas con exposición al H5 incluso por síntomas leves.
Podría haber eso también.
En cuanto a otras características del virus, no estamos observando cambios en el virus que indicarían una facilidad de transmisión.
Pero dada nuestra situación actual y la creciente experiencia con el H5, realmente crear estrategias para proteger mejor a los trabajadores con base en estos datos es, creo, lo correcto que hay que hacer en este momento.
Operadora - 15:00 Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Megan Molteni de STAT.
Megan Molteni de STAT - 15:06 Gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Me preguntaba si podría aclarar algo que dijo acerca de que solo una de las personas que dio positivo en la prueba de anticuerpos informó haber trabajado con vacas que se sabía que estaban infectadas, y sonó como si estuviera diciendo que eso significaba que había una necesidad de más educación adicional.
Pero ¿podría ser también que estos animales con los que están trabajando sean asintomáticos y, por lo tanto, pasen por las salas de ordeño sin ser separados para que sean puestos en cuarentena?
¿Podría hablar un poco sobre lo que sabemos acerca de la enfermedad asintomática en los animales?
Daskalakis - 15:41 Excelente.
Creo que usted ha dado en el clavo al afirmar que esto realmente se trata de educación y también de autoevaluación del riesgo, lo cual considero que es un elemento importante tanto para la razón por la cual alguien usaría el equipo de protección personal adecuado, así como para buscar profilaxis posexposición.
Estas eran granjas donde se sabía que había vacas infectadas y, por lo tanto, realmente se trataba del hecho de que no tenían conciencia de que estaban trabajando con vacas enfermas, a pesar de que se encontraban en entornos donde se sabía que había vacas enfermas.
Así que esto realmente habla de la importancia de más capacitación en las granjas sobre el H5, así como de formas de protegerse del H5.
Megan Molteni de STAT - 16:22 Bueno, gracias.
¿Podría indicarme también, muy brevemente, si hay más estudios serológicos planeados en otros estados como, por ejemplo, en California, dada la cantidad de ganado que observamos allí actualmente?
Daskalakis - 16:33 Gracias por esa pregunta.
Actualmente estamos trabajando, y creo que lo hemos mencionado en uno de nuestros informes destacados anteriores, en un estudio serológico, una encuesta serológica, que se llevó a cabo físicamente en Ohio, debido a que había una gran convención de profesionales bovinos, y así unos 150 de ellos proporcionaron muestras de sangre, así como datos para la encuesta.
Y proporcionaremos actualizaciones sobre esos estudios una vez que estén disponibles.
Operadora - 17:04 Nuestra próxima pregunta es de Josh Nathan-Kazis de Barrons.
Josh Nathan-Kazis de Barrons - 17:08 Lo siento.
Muchas gracias.
Dos preguntas breves.
Uno, me pregunto si podría proporcionar algo de contexto.
Quiero decir, ¿qué tan inesperado es que haya casos asintomáticos de H5?
¿Es algo que se ha visto antes en otros lugares?
¿Cuánto sorprende el hallazgo?
Y, aparte de eso, vi en el MMWR que el 40 % de los trabajadores informaron sentirse enfermos mientras el H5 estaba en su granja, aunque solo una fracción de ellos tenía evidencia serológica de infección.
Me pregunto si podría hablar sobre qué podría estar sucediendo allí y por qué tantos trabajadores dijeron que se sentían enfermos, aunque sus pruebas de sangre no indicaban que estuvieran enfermos.
Daskalakis - 17:46 Gracias.
En cuanto a la primera pregunta, creo que la única manera de eliminar las sorpresas es realizando los estudios, por eso es importante que tengamos esa información.
Pero creo que, dada la levedad de los síntomas que muchas personas están presentando, no es sorprendente que algunas personas no recuerden los síntomas hasta 90 días después de su exposición.
Así que, aunque no es sorprendente, esto está aproximadamente en línea con otras encuestas serológicas que se han realizado y que se centraron en este clado específico de H5N1.
Por ejemplo, un estudio realizado en trabajadores en el 2022-2023 mostró que alrededor del 4.6 % eran seropositivos y aproximadamente el 14 %, como recordarán de una prepublicación que la Universidad de Texas en Galveston publicó a principios del 2024, también mostró personas asintomáticas con infección.
Así que nuevamente, no es sorprendente, pero está en línea con otros datos.
Ahora bien, sobre la segunda pregunta, no todos los síntomas respiratorios están relacionados con el H5N1.
Hemos visto en otros entornos que hay varios otros virus que podrían explicar los síntomas respiratorios.
En estas circunstancias, aunque no se hicieron pruebas serológicas para otros síntomas respiratorios, lo más probable es que las enfermedades que experimentaron no fueron causadas por el H5N1, con base en nuestros criterios de prueba.
Nirav Shah - 19:13 Hola, Josh.
Usted señaló otro punto, o bien interpretó algunos de estos resultados como asintomáticos; sin embargo, la estructura de la encuesta en sí no demuestra si estas personas eran asintomáticas o si simplemente no podían recordar haber tenido síntomas.
Por lo tanto, lo máximo que podemos afirmar es que no pueden recordar haber tenido síntomas.
Algunos de ellos podrían haber tenido síntomas leves que, nuevamente, fueron insignificantes.
Es posible que algunos hayan sido realmente asintomáticos.
Los datos con los que contamos no nos permiten determinar cuál fue el caso y, por esa razón, no estamos caracterizándolos como asintomáticos.
Todo lo que podemos decir es que no recuerdan haber tenido síntomas.
Operadora - 19:55 Nuestra próxima pregunta es de Erica Edwards.
Erica Edwards - 20:00 Hola, muchas gracias.
Agradezco la oportunidad.
Y tengo un par de preguntas.
Una se refiere a la gravedad de la enfermedad por el H5N1 en las personas.
Me refiero a que, claramente, estimaciones previas de otras partes del mundo han citado una tasa de mortalidad de al menos el 50 %.
Tengo curiosidad por saber qué están aprendiendo ustedes del estudio de las infecciones por H5N1 aquí en los Estados Unidos, que creo que serían bastante leves.
¿Qué es diferente aquí?
Y luego, si también pudiera preguntar, ¿podrían hablar sobre algún trabajo que se esté realizando para crear pruebas rápidas para el H5N1?
Daskalakis - 20:32 Gracias por esa pregunta.
En cuanto a la gravedad, nuevamente, lo que hemos estado observando en los Estados Unidos son síntomas extremadamente leves.
Así que, de nuevo, varían desde conjuntivitis moderada a leve y algunas personas también experimentan síntomas respiratorios leves, así como algunos con síntomas inespecíficos, como fiebre en algunos casos.
Entonces, sabe, creo que hay un par de hipótesis, que es todo lo que realmente podemos ofrecer sobre por qué hay una diferencia en la gravedad.
Uno, es que todos los H5N1 no están construidos de la misma manera.
Así que estos son posiblemente diferentes genotipos.
Sabemos que hay diferentes clados y genotipos circulando.
Por lo tanto, lo que tenemos en los EE.
hasta este momento solo ha causado enfermedades leves.
También podría haber asuntos relacionados con las poblaciones expuestas al virus, así como con la magnitud de la exposición.
Así que, de nuevo, todas son hipótesis.
Por lo tanto, no tenemos una respuesta muy clara, pero desde la perspectiva de lo que estamos viendo en los EE.
UU., todo ha sido leve.
Nirav Shah - 21:40 Y después, soy Nirav, para responder a su última pregunta sobre las pruebas rápidas.
Los CDC han estado trabajando muy de cerca con nuestros colegas en los NIH, particularmente con su programa RADx, para evaluar algunas de las pruebas diagnósticas rápidas que ya están disponibles en el mercado, para determinar si esas pruebas son capaces de detectar el H5.
Estas son pruebas que ya pueden detectar influenza A, influenza B y a veces incluso COVID en general.
Pero la pregunta es: ¿pueden detectar H5, la versión actualmente circulante de H5 como parte de su enfoque diagnóstico general?
Y los CDC han estado colaborando con nuestros colegas de los NIH para tratar de entender la utilidad de esas pruebas.
No tenemos un cronograma sobre cuándo estarán disponibles esos datos, pero sé que el trabajo está en marcha ahora mismo.
Por separado, hemos estado trabajando con empresas de diagnóstico para determinar qué tipos de pruebas rápidas adicionales podrían ser útiles en el mercado para intentar mover o acortar la duración entre volverse sintomático o expuesto y luego tener acceso a las pruebas.
Claramente, las pruebas rápidas aún representan un nicho importante, por lo que estamos muy a favor de ellas.
Solo tenemos que asegurarnos de que sean capaces de cumplir con ese propósito.
Daskalakis - 22:48 Solo agregaría otra cosa y es que los CDC también trabajarán con un par de estados para realizar una prueba piloto en la que estamos evaluando una prueba cerca del punto de atención o en el punto de atención, en comparación con las pruebas basadas en laboratorio para el H5.
Esto también ayudará a dilucidar algunas estrategias de pruebas en el punto de atención o autopruebas que podrían ser útiles en el futuro.
Operadora - 23:15 Nuestra próxima pregunta es del Washington Post.
Washington Post - 23:21 Hola.
Gracias por hacer esta llamada.
Dos preguntas.
Usted mencionó que una de las justificaciones para estas medidas de precaución es prevenir la propagación posterior, pero también hemos escuchado que no hay evidencia de transmisión de ser humano a ser humano.
Entonces, ¿crea esta nueva información alguna preocupación de que algunos de estos trabajadores de granjas lecheras podrían haber estado propagando el virus entre sí?
Y la segunda pregunta es que ahora que tenemos una administración entrante que ha prometido deportaciones masivas, ¿está preocupado por la cooperación con estas investigaciones de salud pública en el futuro?
¿Recibiría el mismo tipo de cooperación que tuvo con los trabajadores si hay una posibilidad, si se avecinan deportaciones masivas?
Nirav Shah - 24:07 Soy Nirav.
Con respecto a la primera pregunta, me alegra que haya planteado eso para evitar dudas y para mayor claridad, no hay nada que hayamos visto en los nuevos datos serológicos que ocasione preocupación sobre la transmisión de persona a persona.
Así que, volviendo a su punto sobre por qué estamos dando este paso adicional con pruebas adicionales y Tamiflu para avanzar en ese sentido.
Y la respuesta es para reducir ese riesgo tanto como sea posible.
Este es fundamentalmente un virus respiratorio y, aunque no hemos visto cambios en el virus que indiquen la capacidad de propagarse de persona a persona, queremos mantener ese riesgo tan bajo como está ahora mismo.
Una de las mejores maneras de hacerlo es identificar a las personas que han estado expuestas mediante una mayor realización de pruebas y proporcionarles Tamiflu para reducir los niveles del virus en su cuerpo, lo cual, nuevamente, nos ayuda a mantener ese bajo riesgo lo más bajo posible.
En cuanto a su segunda pregunta, no estamos comentando nada relacionado con la transición o una administración entrante.
Estamos enfocados hoy en los datos serológicos y las acciones de los CDC al respecto.
Moderador - 25:15 Courtney.
Tenemos tiempo para dos preguntas más, por favor.
Operadora - 25:19 Nuestra próxima pregunta es de Youri Benadjalud de ABC News.
Youri Benadjalud de ABC News - 25:22 Gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Estos datos parecen respaldar que hay muchos casos que potencialmente están siendo subestimados, y hasta ahora solo hay 46 confirmados por los CDC.
¿Cuántos casos cree que podrían existir realmente en diversos foros, en los EE.
Y luego tendré una pregunta de seguimiento, por favor.
Nirav Shah - 25:43 Gracias, Youri.
Nuestros datos indican que, en cualquier situación de brote, sabemos que hay personas que pueden haber estado expuestas, pueden haber sido infectadas, pero no forman parte del conteo.
Esto es lo que los datos serológicos nos ayudan a comprender mejor retrospectivamente; sin embargo, todavía necesitamos más datos para caracterizar mejor esa situación y por lo tanto no podemos especular hoy sobre cuántos casos no identificados podría haber.
Siempre hemos sabido que esa es una posibilidad.
Lo que estos datos realmente nos ayudan a entender es que algunos de esos trabajadores pueden haber tenido síntomas tan leves que podrían no recordar haber estado enfermos, y por eso necesitamos identificar a esas personas y asegurarnos de que reciban medicación, como dije en relación con la pregunta anterior, para reducir al máximo su riesgo de enfermarse, así como para disminuir la probabilidad de propagación.
Pero caracterizar mejor en este momento cuánto del iceberg está por encima del agua y cuánto está debajo del agua, no es algo sobre lo que tengamos suficientes datos todavía.
Operadora - 26:43 Nuestra última pregunta es de Kai Kuperschmid de Himes Magazine.
Kai Kuperschmid de Himes Magazine - 26:51 Gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Quería preguntar un poco sobre la cronología.
Aquí mencionó que las muestras se tomaron, creo, de junio a agosto.
Ahora estamos en noviembre y, en general, quiero decir, ha tomado mucho tiempo obtener este tipo de datos.
Sé que muchas personas han estado esperando por eso.
¿Podría describir un poco por qué tomó tanto tiempo y cuáles son los obstáculos para hacer esto, también para hacerlo en otros lugares, posiblemente?
Gracias a todos.
Daskalakis - 27:14 Creo que gran parte de la cronología realmente gira en torno a los procedimientos estándar para las pruebas serológicas del H5.
Así que lo primero es, nuevamente, que teníamos que reunir las muestras.
Tenían que llegar a los CDC.
Y luego, las piezas subsiguientes son que estas 115 muestras tuvieron que procesarse en nuestros laboratorios BSL-3 y, a medida que surgían más datos, la reactividad cruzada con la influenza estacional se convirtió en algo que necesitábamos abordar en las pruebas.
Luego tuvimos que crear protocolos adicionales para hacer la adsorción para la influenza estacional, después realizar la adsorción y luego volver a hacer las pruebas otra vez.
Por lo tanto, esto se publicó realmente en un buen momento y dentro de un cronograma adecuado, dada la complejidad de las pruebas de laboratorio no rutinarias que eran necesarias para poder caracterizar a estas personas.
Gracias por su pregunta.
Moderador - 28:10 Quisiera agradecerles a todos ustedes por acompañarnos hoy.
Si no hemos respondido a sus preguntas, o si tienen preguntas de seguimiento, no duden en llamar a la oficina principal de prensa de los CDC al 404-639-3286 o pueden enviar un correo electrónico a media@cdc.gov.
Gracias por acompañarnos y esto concluirá nuestra llamada.
Esto concluye la conferencia de hoy.
Gracias por participar.
Pueden desconectarse en este momento.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los casos de sarampión aumentan en todo el mundo: en el 2023 se infectaron 10.3 millones de personas A pesar de que en el 2023 se notificaron más de 2 millones de infecciones detransmisión sexual, los datos de los CDC parecen indicar que la epidemia de infecciones de transmisión sexual se podría estar desacelerando Las cebollas servidas en McDonald´s son la fuente probable del brote de E.
coli Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Las cebollas servidas en McDonald´s son la fuente probable del brote de E.
coli FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Monkeypox SEARCH Current Situation U.S.
Case Data: Clade II Monkeypox About Signs and Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Vaccines VIEW ALL Current Situation Learn about the current monkeypox situation around the world Learn More How It Spreads Monkeypox mainly spreads through close contact with an infected person Signs and Symptoms Learn the signs and symptoms of monkeypox, such as a new or unexplained rash Vaccines Learn who should be vaccinated against monkeypox, how the vaccine is given, and where to find it For Professionals Clinical Overview Evaluating, testing, and managing patients with monkeypox Guidance for Health Departments Strategies for U.S.
health departments to manage monkeypox, including vaccination Laboratory Information Information for laboratory personnel on testing and procedures for monkeypox Featured What to Do If You Are Sick Learn how to take care of yourself if you have monkeypox and prevent spread to others Safer Sex Learn how to lower your risk of getting monkeypox during sex or when at social gatherings.
For Close Contacts Testing Rash Photos Monkeypox Monkeypox is a viral disease that can be spread between people or between people and certain animals.
View All For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Los CDC determinan que el riesgo para el público general es extremadamente bajo Para publicación inmediata: 29 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC y el Departamento de Salud de Iowa están investigando un caso presunto de la fiebre de Lassa; el caso se diagnosticó hoy en un residente de Iowa que regresó a los Estados Unidos procedente de África Occidental a comienzos de este mes.
El paciente no estuvo enfermo durante el viaje, o sea que el riesgo para los pasajeros del mismo vuelo es extremadamente bajo.
El paciente estaba hospitalizado en aislamiento en el Health Care Medical Center de la Universidad de Iowa cuando falleció temprano esta tarde.
Pruebas del laboratorio de Nebraska de la Red de Laboratorios de Respuesta realizadas temprano en la mañana dieron resultados provisionales positivos para la fiebre de Lassa y se están planeando pruebas confirmatorias.
La fiebre de Lassa es una enfermedad viral común en África Occidental, pero raramente vista en los Estados Unidos.
En África Occidental, el virus de Lassa se encuentra en roedores y se propaga a los seres humanos a través del contacto con la orina o las heces de los roedores infectados.
En casos muy poco frecuentes, se puede transmitir de persona a persona a través del contacto directo con la sangre o los líquidos corporales de alguien enfermo, a través de las membranas mucosas o a través del contacto sexual.
El virus no se transmite a través del contacto casual y no se cree que los pacientes sean infecciosos antes del comienzo de los síntomas.
Alrededor de 100 000 a 300 000 casos de fiebre de Lassa, y 5000 muertes relacionadas con esta enfermedad ocurren al año en África Occidental.
Si se confirma, el presunto caso de Iowa sería el noveno caso conocido de fiebre de Lassa ocurrido desde 1969 en viajeros que han regresado a los Estados Unidos procedentes de áreas donde esta enfermedad es común.
Los CDC están apoyando a los funcionarios de salud pública estatales y locales de Iowa que están trabajando para saber más acerca de cómo pudo haber contraído el paciente la fiebre de Lassa.
La información preliminar indica que el paciente pudo haber tenido contacto con roedores mientras estuvo en África Occidental.
Los CDC y otras agencias federales han ofrecido asistencia federal a Iowa.
Las personas con fiebre de Lassa solamente pueden transmitir la enfermedad cuando tienen síntomas activos, y los CDC están trabajando con funcionarios de salud pública estatales para identificar a quienes tuvieron contacto con el paciente después de que comenzaron los síntomas.
A aquellas personas identificadas como contactos cercanos del paciente se les hará monitoreo por 21 días.
Se compartirá información adicional a medida que sepamos más acerca de este paciente.
Para obtener más información sobre la fiebre de Lassa, consulte el sitio web de los CDC en Acerca de la fiebre de Lassa | Fiebre de Lassa | CDC.
### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Las cebollas servidas en McDonald´s son la fuente probable del brote de E.
coli ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 31 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una actualización de la alerta de seguridad de los alimentos relacionada con un brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las cebollas servidas en McDonald's en  Puntos clave: La información epidemiológica y de rastreo muestra que las cebollas frescas cortadas son la fuente probable de enfermedades en este brote.
Hasta el 30 de octubre del 2024: Se han notificado 15 casos nuevos de enfermedad lo que lleva el total a 90 Cinco personas más han sido hospitalizadas lo que lleva el total a 27 La fecha más reciente de comienzo de enfermedad es el 16 de octubre del 2024 Todos los nuevos casos de enfermedades ocurrieron antes de que McDonald's y Taylor Farms tomaran medidas para remover las cebollas de los sitios en que se sirven alimentos.
Debido a las medidas que han tomado McDonald's y Taylor Farms con sus productos, los CDC creen que el riesgo continuo para el público es muy bajo.
Lo que debe hacer: Si tiene síntomas graves de infección por E.
coli, busque atención médica y dígale a su proveedor lo que comió.
Los negocios no deben usar las cebollas suministradas por Taylor Farms retiradas del mercado.
Síntomas de E.
coli: La mayoría de las personas infectadas por bacterias E.
coli productoras de la toxina de Shiga presentan cólicos estomacales fuertes, diarrea (a menudo con sangre) y vómitos.
Los síntomas generalmente comienzan de 3 a 4 días después de tragar las bacterias.
La mayoría de las personas se recuperan después de 5 a 7 días, sin tratamiento.
Es posible que algunas personas presenten problemas graves en los riñones (síndrome urémico hemolítico, también llamado HUS en inglés) y deban ser hospitalizadas.
Para obtener más información sobre la E.
coli, consulte Acerca de la infección por Escherichia coli.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos A pesar de que en el 2023 se notificaron más de 2 millones de infecciones detransmisión sexual, los datos de los CDC parecen indicar que la epidemia de infecciones de transmisión sexual se podría estar desacelerando Transcripción de la teleconferencia del MMWR:Evidencia de recientes infecciones por el virus de la influenza aviar H5 entre trabajadores de granjas lecheras y actualizaciones de las directrices de los CDC Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental Se han notificado más casos en el brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra de McDonald's; Taylor Farms retira del mercado las cebollas enviadas a los restaurantes VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Monkeypox EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Case Data: Clade II Monkeypox About Signs and Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Vaccines VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Case Definitions Clinical Overview Clinical Features Vaccine for Monkeypox Prevention in the U.S.
Diagnostic Testing Clinical Care Best Practices Infection Control Guidance VIEW ALL Public Health Case Reporting Monitoring and Risk Assessment Guidance for Health Departments Monkeypox Science Agenda and Research Communication and Social Media Resources VIEW ALL View All Monkeypox Rash Photos For Everyone SEPT.
12, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Below are various photos of monkeypox rash and what it can look like.
Examples of monkeypox rash View Larger Example of an monkeypox lesion View Larger Example of an monkeypox lesion View Larger Example of monkeypox lesions View Larger Example of monkeypox lesions View Larger Example of an monkeypox lesion View Larger Example of multiple monkeypox lesions on a person's back View Larger Example of monkeypox lesions on a person's hand View Larger Example of an monkeypox lesion View Larger Example of an monkeypox lesion Resources Additional photos of monkeypox rashes can be found in WHO's Atlas of monkeypox lesions: A tool for clinical researchers .
These photos range widely and may be difficult for some people to view.
ON THIS PAGE Examples of monkeypox rash Resources RELATED PAGES Signs and Symptoms About Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention VIEW ALL Monkeypox Outbreaks SOURCES PRINT SHARE Monkeypox Monkeypox is a viral disease that can be spread between people or between people and certain animals.
View All For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC recomiendan reducir de 65 a 50 años la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 23 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Hoy, la directora de los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades, Mandy Cohen, respaldó la recomendación del Comité Asesor sobre Prácticas de Vacunación (ACIP, por sus siglas en inglés) para reducir de 65 a 50 años la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica.
Reducir la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica les da la oportunidad a más adultos de protegerse de la enfermedad neumocócica, a una edad cuando el riesgo de infección aumenta considerablemente.
Las bacterias neumocócicas pueden causar enfermedades graves como neumonía y meningitis, al igual que infecciones del torrente sanguíneo, y los adultos de mayor edad tienen un riesgo más alto de presentar enfermedad neumocócica.
Los adultos de 50 años o más deben hablar con un proveedor de atención médica para asegurarse de que estén al día con la vacuna antineumocócica.
Ahora es un buen momento para vacunarse contra la enfermedad neumocócica como preparación para la temporada de virus respiratorios.
Para obtener más información sobre la enfermedad neumocócica, visite: La enfermedad neumocócica| Información sobre la enfermedad neumocócica| CDC PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental Se han notificado más casos en el brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra de McDonald's; Taylor Farms retira del mercado las cebollas enviadas a los restaurantes Los CDC recomiendan la administración de una segunda dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID-19 del 2024-2025 para las personas de 65 años o más y para las personas que estén moderada o gravemente inmunodeprimidas E.
coli McDonald´s hamburguesas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC recomiendan la administración de una segunda dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID-19 del 2024-2025 para las personas de 65 años o más y para las personas que estén moderada o gravemente inmunodeprimidas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
coli Infection (Escherichia coli) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians VIEW ALL Public Health Lab Testing E.
coli Surveillance Publications REP Strain Notices Technical Information VIEW ALL View All DECEMBER 3, 2024 E.
coli Outbreak Linked to Onions Served at McDonald’s FOOD SAFETY ALERT Investigation start date: Oct.
22, 2024 Investigation status: Closed Recall issued: Yes New as of 12/03: This outbreak is over.
Learn what you can do to protect yourself from getting sick from E.
FAST FACTS Cases: 104 Hospitalizations: 34 Deaths: 1 States: 14 Updates Locations Timeline What you should do Follow these four steps to prevent getting sick from E.
Clean: Wash your hands, utensils, and surfaces often.
Rinse fruits and vegetables under running water before eating, cutting, or peeling.
Separate: Keep food that won't be cooked separate from raw meat, poultry, and seafood.
Cook: Use a food thermometer to make sure you have cooked your food to a temperature high enough to kill germs .
Chill: Refrigerate perishable food (food that goes bad) within 2 hours.
If the outside temperature is hotter than 90°F, refrigerate within 1 hour.
Thaw food in the refrigerator, not on the counter.
Symptoms of E.
coli Most people infected with Shiga toxin-producing E.
coli experience severe stomach cramps, diarrhea (often bloody), and vomiting.
Symptoms usually start 3 to 4 days after swallowing the bacteria.
Most people recover without treatment after 5 to 7 days.
Some people may develop serious kidney problems (hemolytic uremic syndrome, also called HUS) and would need to be hospitalized.
Learn more For more information about E.
coli, visit the About Escherichia coli page See also About E.
coli FDA: Outbreak Investigation of E.
coli O157:H7: McDonald's Quarter Pounders ON THIS PAGE What you should do Symptoms of E.
coli See also SOURCES PRINT SHARE E.
coli infection Six types of E.
coli can cause diarrheal illness in people.
Learn about E.
coli, the illnesses it can cause, symptoms of infection, prevention tips, and more.
View All For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians Public Health Lab Testing E.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Se han notificado más casos en el brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra de McDonald's; Taylor Farms retira del mercado las cebollas enviadas a los restaurantes ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 25 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los CDC han publicado una actualización de la alerta de seguridad de los alimentos relacionada con un brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra de McDonald's en 
Desde el 22 de octubre del 2024: Se han notificado 26 casos nuevos de enfermedad, lo que lleva el total a 75.
Se han agregado 3 estados más (Michigan, Nuevo México, Washington) a la cantidad de estados donde las personas enfermas viven, lo que lleva el total a 13 estados.
12 personas más han sido hospitalizadas, lo que lleva el total a 22.
Esta cantidad incluye el caso de muerte notificada previamente en Colorado y a un niño con complicaciones por el síndrome urémico hemolítico (o HUS, por sus siglas en inglés), y 1 caso nuevo de HUS en un adulto.
La fecha más reciente de comienzo de enfermedad es el 10 de octubre del 2024.
De 42 personas entrevistadas, las 42 reportaron haber comido en McDonald´s antes de que empezara su enfermedad, y la mayoría mencionó específicamente haber comido la hamburguesa de un cuarto de libra.
No se ha identificado ninguna otra cadena de minoristas ni tiendas minoristas como fuente de casos de enfermedad.
El ingrediente específico vinculado a la enfermedad todavía no ha sido confirmado como la fuente del brote, pero los investigadores siguen enfocados en dos ingredientes en particular: cebollas cortadas frescas y carne fresca de hamburguesas.
Taylor Farms, el proveedor de las cebollas cortadas para los establecimientos de McDonald's afectados, empezó a retirar del mercado las cebollas amarillas.
Se contactó directamente a las tiendas y se les pidió que retiraran los productos.
La FDA está trabajando muy de cerca con las granjas involucradas y seguirá proporcionando actualizaciones, incluso anuncios de retiros del mercado adicionales que podrían necesitarse para los negocios que hayan recibido las cebollas retiradas del mercado.
Debido a las medidas que han tomado McDonald's y Taylor Farms con sus productos, los CDC creen que el riesgo continuo para el público es muy bajo.
Lo que debe hacer: Si tiene síntomas graves de infección por E.
coli, busque atención médica y dígale a su proveedor lo que comió.
Los negocios no deben usar las cebollas suministradas por Taylor Farms retiradas del mercado.
Síntomas de E.
coli: La mayoría de las personas infectadas por bacterias E.
coli productoras de la toxina de Shiga presentan cólicos estomacales fuertes, diarrea (a menudo con sangre) y vómitos.
Los síntomas generalmente comienzan de 3 a 4 días después de tragar las bacterias.
La mayoría de las personas se recuperan después de 5 a 7 días, sin tratamiento.
Es posible que algunas personas presenten problemas graves en los riñones (síndrome urémico hemolítico, también llamado HUS en inglés) y deban ser hospitalizadas.
Para obtener más información sobre la E.
coli, consulte Acerca de la infección por Escherichia coli.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Las cebollas servidas en McDonald´s son la fuente probable del brote de E.
coli Se presume fiebre de Lassa en la muerte de un viajero estadounidense que regresó de África Occidental Los CDC recomiendan reducir de 65 a 50 años la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica Los CDC recomiendan la administración de una segunda dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID-19 del 2024-2025 para las personas de 65 años o más y para las personas que estén moderada o gravemente inmunodeprimidas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC recomiendan reducir de 65 a 50 años la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Lassa Fever EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Lassa Fever Training VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers View All JANUARY 31, 2025 About Lassa Fever KEY POINTS Lassa fever is a viral illness spread by a rat found in parts of West Africa.
People can get Lassa fever by having contact with infected rats or their saliva, urine or droppings.
Lassa fever can spread between people.
Most people with Lassa fever have mild symptoms.
Lassa fever can be deadly.
What it is Lassa fever is a severe viral illness that comes on quickly once someone is infected.
It is spread by the "multimammate rat" or Mastomys natalensis (Mastomys), which is found throughout Sub-Saharan Africa.
Currently, only West African multimammate rats are known to carry Lassa virus.
Lassa fever is found in parts of West Africa, including Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea and Nigeria.
People who live in neighboring countries are also at risk because the rat that spreads Lassa fever lives throughout the region.
The first documented case occurred in 1969.
Lassa fever is named after the town in Nigeria where the first cases occurred.
View LargerDownload Lassa fever is found primarily in West Africa.
Healthcare providers: Review guidance on emergency services, screening, testing, infection control and PPE for viral hemorrhagic fevers, like Lassa fever, here: VHFs for Healthcare Providers Signs and symptoms About 8 in 10 people who are infected have mild symptoms and are not diagnosed.
Mild symptoms include: Slight fever Feeling tired and weak Headache In some people, the disease may cause more serious symptoms like: Bleeding Difficulty breathing Vomiting Facial swelling Pain in the chest, back, and abdomen Shock How long it takes for signs to show Signs and symptoms of Lassa fever typically occur 1 to 3 weeks after a person is infected.
Complications Lassa fever can lead to hearing loss, with about 1 out of 3 cases experiencing various levels of deafness.
Deafness can occur in both mild and severe cases of Lassa fever.
In many cases, the hearing loss is permanent.
If a pregnant woman is infected, there is a high risk of miscarriage.
In these cases, about 95% of fetuses do not survive.
Exposure risks Although Lassa fever is found in West Africa, there's a risk of Lassa virus infection wherever the multimmamate rat is found.
How it spreads Lassa fever is caused by infection with the Lassa virus, which is spread by rodents.
These rodents breed quickly and carry the virus in their urine and droppings.
They often live in areas where peoples' food supplies are stored.
People mostly get Lassa fever by eating or breathing in the virus, for example: Touching contaminated objects Eating food that has the virus Getting the virus in open cuts or sores Eating rodents Breathing in air that has infected urine or droppings This may occur when cleaning or sweeping.
Infection can also occur after coming in contact with the body fluids of an infected person.
People with Lassa fever are not contagious until after their symptoms begin.
Lassa fever is not spread through casual contact, such as hugging, shaking hands, or sitting near someone.
The Lassa virus can spread in health care settings when not using proper personal protective equipment (PPE) or properly sterilizing equipment.
Prevention If you go to West Africa, prevent Lassa fever by keeping away from rats.
You can also: Put food away in rat-proof containers and keep the home clean.
Avoid eating these rats.
Trap rats in and around homes.
Healthcare providers caring for patients with Lassa fever, should take precautions like: Wearing protective clothing (masks, gloves, gowns, and goggles) Properly sterilizing equipment Taking infection control measures Isolating infected patients until they are cured Controlling rodents at home Decreasing rat populations at home in high-risk areas helps control and prevent Lassa fever.
Diagnosis Diagnosing Lassa fever can be difficult because symptoms vary and are similar to symptoms caused by other diseases.
Healthcare workers should contact their health department if they suspect Lassa fever in a returning traveler.
Diagnostic testing can be done in a laboratory with a high level of biosafety and enhanced infection prevention and control precautions.
The ability to diagnose Lassa fever in areas where it is commonly found can be difficult.
This is due to limited laboratory capacity to test patient samples easily and safely.
Treatment Ribavirin, an antiviral drug, has been used to successfully treat patients with Lassa fever.
It is most effective when given soon after a patient becomes sick.
Patients should also receive supportive care, including rest, hydration, and treatment of symptoms.
ON THIS PAGE What it is Signs and symptoms How long it takes for signs to show Complications Exposure risks How it spreads Prevention Diagnosis Treatment SOURCES PRINT SHARE Lassa Fever Learn about Lassa fever, how it spreads, where it's found, and how to protect yourself.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Monkeypox EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Case Data: Clade II Monkeypox About Signs and Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Vaccines VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Case Definitions Clinical Overview Clinical Features Vaccine for Monkeypox Prevention in the U.S.
Diagnostic Testing Clinical Care Best Practices Infection Control Guidance VIEW ALL Public Health Case Reporting Monitoring and Risk Assessment Guidance for Health Departments Monkeypox Science Agenda and Research Communication and Social Media Resources VIEW ALL View All Getting Tested for Monkeypox SEPT.
12, 2024 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW Testing for monkeypox is only recommended for people with a rash consistent with monkeypox.
Only a healthcare provider can order an monkeypox test.
To test for monkeypox, a healthcare provider will swab your rash.
Your local health department can provide information on your community's testing options.
When to get tested Currently, testing is only recommended if you have a rash consistent with monkeypox.
If you think you have monkeypox or have had close personal contact with someone who has monkeypox, consider taking precautions and visit a healthcare provider to help you decide if you need to be tested for monkeypox.
FOR HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS Diagnostic Testing for Monkeypox How to get tested Only a healthcare provider can order an monkeypox test.
The healthcare provider may take a specimen and send it to a lab for testing or they may send you to a lab for both specimen collection and testing.
Find testing options‎ Contact your local health department with any questions and to find out what the testing options are for your community.
Find testing in your community What to expect when you get tested You will likely need to fill out paperwork before you get tested.
To get a specimen to test, the healthcare provider will use a swab to rub vigorously across lesions of your rash.
They will take swabs from more than one lesion.
This swabbing may be uncomfortable but is necessary to get enough material to detect the monkeypox virus from the specimens.
The specimens will be tested in a lab to see if the monkeypox virus is detected.
Results are usually available within a few days.
While you are waiting for your results, take precautions to avoid getting or spreading monkeypox virus to others.
Testing results If your test result is positive, take the necessary steps to protect yourself and others until you have completely recovered from your infection.
If your test result is negative: a negative test result means the test did not detect the virus and you probably do not have monkeypox.
Continue to take steps to protect yourself and others.
If your test result is inconclusive, that means that your test will need to be conducted again because not enough of the specimen was taken.
Paying for testing The cost of monkeypox testing depends on where you get it.
Tests conducted by public health departments are usually free.
Testing referrals from a private healthcare provider to a commercial lab or tests done in the hospital may involve a fee.
For information on testing options in your community contact your local health department.
ON THIS PAGE When to get tested How to get tested Testing results Paying for testing SOURCES PRINT SHARE Monkeypox Monkeypox is a viral disease that can be spread between people or between people and certain animals.
View All For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Brote grave de E.
coli en estados de la región montañosa del oeste vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra (Quarter Pounder) de McDonald's; la empresa retiró temporalmente los ingredientes que se sospecha que son la causa ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Los CDC han publicado una alerta de seguridad de los alimentos relacionada con un brote de infecciones por E.
coli vinculado a las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra de McDonald's en 
Puntos clave: Cuarenta y nueve (49) personas en diez (10) estados se han enfermado por la misma cepa de E.
coli O157:H7.
La mayoría de las personas enfermas son de Colorado (26) o Nebraska (9).
10 personas han sido hospitalizadas.
Una persona mayor en Colorado ha muerto.
Además, un niño está hospitalizado con complicaciones por el síndrome urémico hemolítico (HUS, por sus siglas en inglés).
Todas las personas entrevistadas han reportado haber comido en McDonald´s antes de que empezara su enfermedad, y la mayoría mencionó específicamente haber comido la hamburguesa de un cuarto de libra.
El ingrediente específico vinculado a la enfermedad todavía no ha sido identificado, pero los investigadores están enfocados en dos ingredientes en particular: cebollas cortadas frescas y carne fresca de hamburguesas.
McDonald´s informó a los CDC que, mientras continúa la investigación, retiró de manera proactiva las cebollas cortadas y la carne usadas en las hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra en los restaurantes de los estados afectados.
Puede que no haya hamburguesas de un cuarto de libra por un tiempo en algunos estados.
Lo que debe hacer: Si tiene síntomas graves de infección por E.
coli después de comer una hamburguesa de un cuarto de libra de McDonald´s, busque atención médica y dígale a su proveedor lo que comió.
Síntomas de E.
coli: La mayoría de las personas infectadas por bacterias E.
coli productoras de la toxina de Shiga presentan cólicos estomacales fuertes, diarrea (a menudo con sangre) y vómitos.
Los síntomas generalmente comienzan de 3 a 4 días después de tragar las bacterias.
La mayoría de las personas se recuperan después de 5 a 7 días, sin tratamiento.
Es posible que algunas personas presenten problemas graves en los riñones (síndrome urémico hemolítico, también llamado HUS en inglés) y deban ser hospitalizadas.
Para obtener más información sobre la E.
coli, consulte Acerca de la infección por Escherichia coli.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC recomiendan reducir de 65 a 50 años la edad para recibir la vacuna antineumocócica Los CDC recomiendan la administración de una segunda dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID-19 del 2024-2025 para las personas de 65 años o más y para las personas que estén moderada o gravemente inmunodeprimidas El uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes está en su nivel más bajo en 25 años, pero las disparidades persisten Los CDC confirman nuevos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
El uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes está en su nivel más bajo en 25 años, pero las disparidades persisten FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
coli Infection (Escherichia coli) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians VIEW ALL Public Health Lab Testing E.
coli Surveillance Publications REP Strain Notices Technical Information VIEW ALL View All For Everyone DECEMBER 3, 2024 Where People Got Sick: E.
coli Outbreak, Onions Served at McDonald's - November 13, 2024 KEY POINTS This outbreak is over.
Learn what you can do to protect yourself from getting sick from E.
Notice Timeline Updates Where people got sick This map shows where the 104 people in this E.
coli outbreak lived.
This outbreak may not have been limited to the states with known illnesses, and the true number of sick people was likely much higher than the number reported.
This is because many people recover without medical care and are not tested for E.
Skip Over Map Container Number of Sick People 1 to 5 6 to 15 16 to 30 Download Image Skip Data Table Data Table Download Data (CSV) Skipped data table.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE E.
coli infection Six types of E.
coli can cause diarrheal illness in people.
Learn about E.
coli, the illnesses it can cause, symptoms of infection, prevention tips, and more.
View All For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians Public Health Lab Testing E.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
coli Infection (Escherichia coli) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians VIEW ALL Public Health Lab Testing E.
coli Surveillance Publications REP Strain Notices Technical Information VIEW ALL View All For Everyone DECEMBER 3, 2024 When People Got Sick: E.
coli Outbreak, Onions Served at McDonald's - November 13, 2024 KEY POINTS This outbreak is over.
Learn what you can do to protect yourself from getting sick from E.
Notice Locations Updates When people got sick This chart shows when the 104 people in this E.
coli outbreak got sick.
The true number of sick people in this outbreak was likely much higher than the number reported.
This is because many people recover without medical care and are not tested for E.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE E.
coli infection Six types of E.
coli can cause diarrheal illness in people.
Learn about E.
coli, the illnesses it can cause, symptoms of infection, prevention tips, and more.
View All For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks of E.
coli Infections Risk Factors Prevention Treatment Health Care Providers Resources for Clinicians Public Health Lab Testing E.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Pets, Healthy People EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Risk Factors Pet Safety in Emergencies Pet Travel Safety Outbreaks Linked to Animals and Animal Products Diseases that Can Spread Between Animals and People Educational Materials Resources for Animal Exhibitors Controlling Wild Rodent Infestations Resources for Schools and Daycares Pets and Other Animals VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Resources VIEW ALL View All Controlling Wild Rodent Infestations APR.
8, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Rodents can carry many diseases that can spread directly or indirectly to people.
It's easier to control rodents before they can establish themselves in your home or building.
Regularly check your home for rodent droppings and gnaw marks as these are both signs of a rodent's presence.
Overview Rodents, such as rats, mice, and chipmunks, are known to carry many diseases.
These diseases can spread to people directly, through: Handling of rodents Contact with rodent droppings (poop), urine, or saliva Rodent bites Rodent droppings, urine, and saliva can spread by breathing in air or eating food that is contaminated with rodent waste.
Rodents can also carry ticks, mites, or fleas that can spread diseases.
Many diseases do not cause any apparent illness in rodents.
This means you cannot tell if a rodent is carrying a disease just by looking at it.
Infestation of rodents in and around the home is the main reason disease spreads from rodents to people.
The best way to prevent a rodent infestation and contact with rodents is to remove: Food sources Water Items that provide shelter for rodents How to Trap Up to Remove Rodents How to Seal Up to Prevent Rodents How to Clean Up After Rodents Signs that rodents are present The first signs of rodents usually appear before you even see a rat or mouse.
Regular inspection of the inside and outside of a home or business is important to identify signs of rodents.
It's easier to control rodents before they have time to become established.
Two signs of rodent presence are rodent droppings and gnaw marks.
Rodent droppings Rodent droppings can be found anywhere rodents have accessed.
They are common in cabinets, drawers, and other areas out of plain sight.
Rodent droppings are pointed at one end and often contain hair.
It can be challenging to know if there is an active rodent population just by examining droppings.
One way to be sure is to safely clean the area.
If droppings are present after cleaning, this indicates an active rodent presence.
Gnaw marks Rats and mice gnaw to create better access points and keep their teeth at the proper length.
Their teeth leave distinct marks and are a good sign that rodents were active in the area.
Gnaw marks alone may only mean that rodents were active in the area at some point.
Gnaw marks are often found in the same area as droppings.
The same clean-up techniques can be used to help determine if there is an active rodent presence.
Diseases spread by rodents Diseases spread directly by rodents Certain diseases can spread from rodents to people through direct contact with infected rodents.
This can be through breathing in contaminated air, touching contaminated materials and then touching eyes, nose, or mouth.
They can also spread by being bitten or scratched by an infected rodent, or eating food contaminated by an infected rodent.
Bacterial diseases Leptospirosis Rat-Bite Fever Salmonellosis Sylvatic Typhus Tularemia Viral diseases Hantavirus Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome Lassa Fever Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM) Monkeypox Omsk Hemorrhagic Fever South American Arenaviruses* *Argentine hemorrhagic fever, Bolivian hemorrhagic fever, Chapare Hemorrhagic Fever, Sabiá-associated hemorrhagic fever, and Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever.
Diseases spread indirectly by rodents Certain diseases can spread from rodents to people through indirect contact.
This can occur when people are bitten by ticks, mites, fleas, and mosquitos that have fed on infected rodents.
Diseases can also spread to people from rodents through the consumption of an intermediate host (for example, beetles or cockroaches).
Environmental Protection Agency Pesticides Controlling Rodents and Regulating Rodenticides Tips for Hiring a Rodent Control Professional Selected EPA-Registered Disinfectants National Park Service Office of Public Health National Center for Healthy Housing ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs that rodents are present Diseases spread by rodents Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Pets, Healthy People Diseases can spread between animals and people.
Learn how to stay healthy around pets and other animals.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Monkeypox EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Case Data: Clade II Monkeypox About Signs and Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Vaccines VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Case Definitions Clinical Overview Clinical Features Vaccine for Monkeypox Prevention in the U.S.
Diagnostic Testing Clinical Care Best Practices Infection Control Guidance VIEW ALL Public Health Case Reporting Monitoring and Risk Assessment Guidance for Health Departments Monkeypox Science Agenda and Research Communication and Social Media Resources VIEW ALL View All JYNNEOS Vaccine Effectiveness AUG.
27, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW JYNNEOS vaccine is effective.
Two doses of the vaccine provide the best protection.
People who get vaccinated can still get monkeypox, but their illness may be less severe.
Effectiveness data JYNNEOS vaccine is effective at reducing the risk of monkeypox, with two doses providing the best protection.
Vaccine effectiveness (VE) measures how well vaccination works under real-world conditions to protect people against infection, symptomatic illness, hospitalization, and death.
For instance, 70% VE means that the number of vaccinated people who are ill is 70% lower than the number of unvaccinated people who are ill.
Multiple studies are needed to generate reliable, real-world VE estimates.
These studies show JYNNEOS can reduce the risk of monkeypox illness, with two doses providing the best protection.
No vaccine is 100% effective.
People who have been vaccinated can still get monkeypox, but vaccination may make illness less severe.
View LargerDownload Adjusted vaccine effectiveness of JYNNEOS vaccine by study and number of doses.
Factors affecting vaccine efficacy estimates These studies used different methods and data sources and also accounted for different factors that could influence VE estimates.
Therefore, the estimates may not be directly comparable.
However, all studies showed that the JYNNEOS vaccine is effective in preventing monkeypox.
Resources Estimated Effectiveness of JYNNEOS Vaccine in Preventing Mpox: A Multijurisdictional Case-Control Study — United States, August 19, 2022–March 31, 2023 Effectiveness of JYNNEOS Vaccine Against Diagnosed Mpox Infection — New York, 2022 Vaccine Effectiveness of JYNNEOS against Mpox Disease in the United States ON THIS PAGE Effectiveness data Factors affecting vaccine efficacy estimates Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Monkeypox Monkeypox is a viral disease that can be spread between people or between people and certain animals.
View All For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC confirman nuevos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 4 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov 3 de octubre del 2024: Los CDC han confirmado dos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 de muestras enviadas por California.
Los casos ocurrieron en personas con exposición ocupacional a vacas lecheras infectadas.
Hay una investigación en curso liderada por California.
La identificación de la cepa H5 en las personas con exposición a animales infectados no es inesperada y no cambia la estimación de los CDC del riesgo para el público en general, el cual sigue siendo bajo.
En este momento, no hay un vínculo o contacto conocido entre el primero y el segundo caso confirmados en California, lo cual parece indicar que estas son instancias separadas de propagación del virus de animal a persona.
Los CDC continúan la colaboración estrecha con California y con otros funcionarios de salud pública estatales para apoyar los esfuerzos dirigidos por el estado a fin de controlar la propagación del virus H5N1 de animales infectados a seres humanos; el monitoreo activo de California destaca los pasos que se han tomado a nivel estatal para reducir el riesgo de los trabajadores de granjas que podrían estar en contacto con animales con el H5N1.
En los próximos días, los CDC realizarán caracterización adicional de los virus, incluso secuenciación, aislamiento y cultivo de virus, si es posible.
Estos son los primeros casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California, donde los brotes de la influenza aviar H5N1 entre manadas de vacas lecheras se notificaron por primera vez en agosto del 2024.
La influenza aviar H5N1 se detectó por primera vez en vacas este año en los Estados Unidos.
El virus se ha extendido entre aves silvestres y ha causado brotes continuos entre las aves de corral en los Estados Unidos desde el 2022.
Ha causado infecciones raras, esporádicas en las personas que trabajan con animales infectados, como vacas lecheras y aves de corral.
Incluido el caso más reciente, se han notificado 16 casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en los Estados Unidos durante el 2024, lo cual aumenta el total a 17 casos desde el 2022.
Durante el 2024 se han notificado casos en Texas (1), Michigan (2), Colorado (10), Misuri (1) y California (2).
Seis de los 16 casos en seres humanos notificados han estado vinculados a exposición a vacas lecheras enfermas o infectadas.
Nueve casos tuvieron exposición a aves de corral infectadas.
La fuente de la infección del caso en Misuri no ha sido determinada.
Están en curso las pruebas serológicas de contactos de este caso en Misuri.
Los CDC tienen recomendaciones para proteger a las personas contra la influenza aviar H5N1 en las vacas lecheras.
Se incluye evitar el contacto con aves silvestres y animales enfermos o muertos, y no preparar ni consumir leche sin pasteurizar (cruda) o queso crudo.
Si usted trabaja con vacas lecheras u otros animales que pudieran estar infectados por el virus de la influenza aviar H5N1 use equipo de protección personal (EPP) cuando esté en contacto con (o cerca de) vacas lecheras, leche cruda, otros animales, o superficies y otros objetos que pudieran estar contaminados con el virus.
Los CDC emitieron hace poco directrices actualizadas sobre el equipo de protección personal (EPP) para prevenir la infección por el virus de la influenza aviar H5N1.
Los CDC recomiendan que si usted se enferma después de tener contacto cercano con animales infectados, contacte a su departamento de salud local y a un proveedor de atención médica para que le hagan pruebas.
Los síntomas de la influenza aviar H5 incluyen ojos enrojecidos (conjuntivitis), síntomas leves de las vías respiratorias superiores similares a los de la influenza (gripe), fiebre, tos, dolor de garganta, dificultad para respirar, moqueo o congestión nasal y dolores musculares.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos E.
coli McDonald´s hamburguesas El uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes está en su nivel más bajo en 25 años, pero las disparidades persisten Los CDC confirman un tercer caso de la influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos en California Posible riesgo de salud pública para las personas que piden medicamentos recetados falsificados de farmacias en línea VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC confirman un tercer caso de la influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos en California FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) El uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes está en su nivel más bajo en 25 años, pero las disparidades persisten COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 17 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  17 de Octubre del 2024.
El uso corriente de productos de tabaco entre los estudiantes de escuela secundaria media y superior de los Estados Unidos ha caído al nivel más bajo registrado en 25 años.
Esto según datos recientemente publicados de la Encuesta Nacional de Tabaquismo en los Jóvenes (NYTS, por sus siglas en inglés).
Solo en el último año, al menos medio millón menos de estudiantes están usando productos de tabaco, lo cual contribuye a este progreso importante.
En el 2024, 2.25 millones de estudiantes de escuela secundaria media y superior reportaron el uso corriente (el uso en uno o más días durante los últimos 30 días) de algún producto de tabaco, en comparación con 2.80 millones en el 2023.
La disminución se atribuyó en gran parte a la caída significativa en la cantidad de estudiantes que reportaron el uso corriente de cigarrillos electrónicos (2.13 millones de jóvenes en el 2023, en comparación con 1.63 millones de jóvenes en el 2024).
En el último año, también ocurrió una disminución significativa en el uso corriente de narguiles (hookas): 290 000 en el 2023, en comparación con 190 000 en el 2024.
Fumar cigarrillos alcanzó el nivel más bajo nunca registrado por la encuesta, en la que solo 1.4 % de los estudiantes reportaron el consumo corriente en el 2024.
"Alcanzar el nivel más bajo en 25 años del uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes es un hito extraordinario para la salud pública.
Sin embargo, con más de 2 millones de jóvenes que usan productos de tabaco y ciertos grupos que no muestran una disminución en el uso, nuestra misión está lejos de completarse", dijo Deirdre Lawrence Kittner, Ph.D., M.P.H., directora de la Oficina de Tabaquismo y Salud de los CDC.
"Debemos seguir comprometidos con los esfuerzos de salud pública para garantizar que todos los jóvenes puedan tener una vida saludable y libre del tabaco", afirmó.
Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) y la Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos de los Estados Unidos (FDA) analizaron los datos de la Encuesta Nacional de Tabaquismo en los Jóvenes (NYTS) para evaluar el uso de nueve productos de tabaco entre los estudiantes de escuela secundaria media (grados 6 a 8) y escuela secundaria superior (grados 9 a 12) en los Estados Unidos.
La información detallada de la NYTS del 2024 sobre el uso de cigarrillos electrónicos y bolsitas de nicotina se publicó recientemente.
La publicación de hoy proporciona datos adicionales de la encuesta, incluidos los hallazgos acerca del uso de otros tipos de productos de tabaco y un análisis detallado del uso de productos de tabaco por nivel de escuela, sexo, y raza y grupo étnico.
El uso de cigarrillos electrónicos en los jóvenes disminuyó al nivel más bajo en una década; sin embargo, por el undécimo año consecutivo, los cigarrillos electrónicos siguieron siendo el producto de tabaco más comúnmente usado (5.9 %) entre los jóvenes que reportaron el uso corriente de productos de tabaco.
En el 2024, las bolsitas de nicotina se convirtieron en el segundo producto de tabaco más comúnmente usado entre los jóvenes (1.8 %), seguidas por cigarrillos (1.4 %), puros (1.2 %), tabaco sin humo (1.2 %), otros productos de nicotina orales (1.2 %), productos de tabaco calentados (0.8 %), narguiles o hookas (0.7 %) y tabaco de pipa (0.5 %).
El informe también encontró un progreso variable en todos los grupos de población.
Por ejemplo, durante el 2023-2024, el uso corriente de cualquiera de los productos de tabaco, cigarrillos electrónicos y múltiples productos de tabaco, disminuyó de forma significativa entre las mujeres estudiantes, y el uso corriente de cualquiera de los productos de tabaco, cigarrillos electrónicos, puros, narguiles (hookas) y múltiples productos de tabaco disminuyó entre los estudiantes hispanos.
En contraste, durante el 2023-2024, el uso corriente de cualquiera de los productos de tabaco, cigarrillos electrónicos, productos de nicotina orales, cualquier producto de tabaco combustible y múltiples productos de tabaco aumentó entre los estudiantes indígenas de los EE.
o los nativos de Alaska, y el uso corriente de bolsitas de nicotina aumentó entre los estudiantes de raza blanca.
No hubo cambios significativos en el uso corriente de cigarrillos, tabaco sin humo, productos de tabaco calentados y tabaco de pipa para todos los grupos raciales y étnicos evaluados.
"Vamos en la dirección correcta cuando se trata de reducir el uso de productos de tabaco entre los jóvenes de nuestro país", dijo Brian King, Ph.D., M.P.H., director del Centro de Productos de Tabaco de la FDA.
"Pero no podemos bajar la guardia.
Se necesita una vigilancia continua para seguir reduciendo todas las formas de uso de productos de tabaco entre los jóvenes.
Abordar disparidades sigue siendo una parte esencial de estos esfuerzos para asegurarnos de no dejar a nadie atrás", afirmó.
La disminución del uso de productos de tabaco que se observó es probablemente el resultado de factores múltiples, como la implementación de estrategias basadas en la evidencia a los niveles nacional, estatal y local.
Las estrategias de prevención del consumo de tabaco basadas en la evidencia incluyen aumentos de precios, campañas en los medios de comunicación masiva para educar a los jóvenes acerca de los efectos dañinos de todos los productos de tabaco y políticas integrales sobre ambientes libre de humo que incluyan los cigarrillos electrónicos.
La FDA también continúa reglamentando el mercado de productos de tabaco al realizar revisiones exhaustivas antes de que se comercialicen, y al usar el alcance completo de sus herramientas para el cumplimiento y ejecución de la ley en toda la cadena de suministros, incluidos fabricantes, importadores, distribuidores y minoristas.
El uso de productos de tabaco en todas sus formas es peligroso, y casi todo el uso de productos de tabaco comienza en la adolescencia.
Debido a las consecuencias negativas del consumo de tabaco en la salud y los daños únicos asociados a la exposición de los adolescentes a la nicotina, prevenir el uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes es imperativo.
Los esfuerzos para reducir el uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes y las disparidades relacionadas también son una parte esencial de los esfuerzos de prevención y control del tabaco.
Para obtener más información sobre la prevención del uso de productos de tabaco en los jóvenes y para ayudar a los jóvenes a dejar de fumar, visite: Cigarrillos electrónicos (vapeadores) | Fumar y consumo de tabaco | CDC Los jóvenes y el consumo de tabaco | Fumar y consumo de tabaco | CDC Campaña El Verdadero Costo | FDA Recursos para prevenir el vapeo | HHS.gov Adolescentes libres de humo | Instituto Nacional del Cáncer PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC recomiendan la administración de una segunda dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID-19 del 2024-2025 para las personas de 65 años o más y para las personas que estén moderada o gravemente inmunodeprimidas E.
coli McDonald´s hamburguesas Los CDC confirman nuevos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California Los CDC confirman un tercer caso de la influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos en California VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC confirman nuevos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Monkeypox EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Case Data: Clade II Monkeypox About Signs and Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Vaccines VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Case Definitions Clinical Overview Clinical Features Vaccine for Monkeypox Prevention in the U.S.
Diagnostic Testing Clinical Care Best Practices Infection Control Guidance VIEW ALL Public Health Case Reporting Monitoring and Risk Assessment Guidance for Health Departments Monkeypox Science Agenda and Research Communication and Social Media Resources VIEW ALL View All Preventing Monkeypox While Traveling For Everyone JUNE 24, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW There are two types of monkeypox, clade I and clade II.
There are current widespread outbreaks of clade I monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), and cases and outbreaks have been reported in several neighboring countries.
There also have been travel-associated clade I monkeypox cases in Europe and Asia.
A travel-associated clade I monkeypox case in the United States was reported November 15, 2024.
Travelers to countries with sustained spread of clade I monkeypox should know how monkeypox is spreading.
They should be vaccinated with two doses of JYNNEOS if they anticipate certain sexual activities while traveling.
There's an ongoing global outbreak of clade II monkeypox that began in 2022.
Cases continue to spread at low levels in many countries around the world.
Continue to follow CDC’s current vaccine guidance to prevent clade II monkeypox, which will also help protect against clade I monkeypox.
Traveling Current outbreaks and Travel Health Notices There are two types of monkeypox, clade I and clade II.
Travelers to countries where clade I monkeypox is spreading should know how monkeypox is spreading.
They should be vaccinated with two doses of JYNNEOS if they anticipate certain sexual activities while traveling.
There's an ongoing global outbreak of clade II monkeypox that began in 2022.
Cases continue to spread at low levels in many countries around the world.
Visit Monkeypox in the United States and Around the World: Current Situation for more information.
Before traveling to an area with monkeypox spread Consider travel health and medical evacuation insurance .
Learn more about which activities may increase your risk of exposure when you travel to a country where monkeypox is spreading Visit a healthcare provider to discuss prevention and risk reduction strategies.
If eligible, get vaccinated for monkeypox before you travel.
Stay up to date on CDC Travelers' Health recommendations.
KEEP READING Monkeypox in the United States and Around the World: Current Situation Avoid monkeypox while traveling Avoid any rash you see on others and consider minimizing skin-to-skin contact.
This is particularly important at a rave, party, or club where there is minimal clothing and where there is direct, personal, often skin-to-skin contact.
Do not kiss, hug, cuddle, or have sex with someone with monkeypox.
Do not share eating utensils, dishes, plates, or cups with a person with monkeypox.
Do not handle or touch the bedding, towels, or clothing of a person with monkeypox.
If you're caring for someone with monkeypox, maintain distance, don't directly help the person with monkeypox with feeding or drinking, and be sure to wear personal protective equipment like gloves, a gown, and goggles if you must be around them.
In areas where monkeypox is endemic (found regularly) avoid contact with animals that can carry the virus that causes monkeypox, such as rodents and primates.
Wash your hands often with soap and water, or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer, especially before eating or touching your face and after you use the bathroom.
Vaccination If you are traveling, CDC recommends vaccination if you are eligible, which includes people who plan to travel to a country with an monkeypox outbreak and anticipate participating in certain sexual activities.
Get vaccinated for monkeypox before you travel.
If possible, get your first dose of the monkeypox vaccine at least 6 weeks before traveling.
Get the second dose 4 weeks later.
It takes about 2 more weeks to get the best protection against monkeypox.
If you get sick with monkeypox during or after travel Seek medical care immediately if you develop new, unexplained skin rash (lesions on any part of the body), with or without fever and chills, and avoid contact with others.
Tell your doctor where you traveled for the last 21 days before you developed symptoms.
KEEP READING Signs and Symptoms of Monkeypox If you have monkeypox, do not travel Isolate at home or in another location until your symptoms are gone and your rash has healed; this means all scabs have fallen off and a fresh layer of skin has formed.
It's especially important to not travel if you have fever, mouth sores, or respiratory symptoms such as sore throat, nasal congestion, or cough.
If you have monkeypox and must travel, cover your rash and wear a well-fitting mask.
Take additional steps to prevent spread to others.
Be aware of the public health laws and regulations at your international destination.
If you have been in contact with a person who has monkeypox and travel internationally, you may be subject to local public health laws and regulations.
If you test positive for monkeypox, you may be required to isolate until you are no longer considered contagious.
Check your destination's ministry of health or U.S.
Embassy website to learn about requirements related to monkeypox at your destination.
If you need medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care During Travel.
Options for treatment might not be available in some countries.
KEEP READING What to Do If You Are Sick Resources Clade I Monkeypox Outbreak Originating in Central Africa Clade II Monkeypox Outbreaks around the World Monkeypox in the United States and Around the World: Current Situation Safer Sex, Social Gatherings, and Monkeypox Signs and Symptoms of Monkeypox CDC Travelers' Health Country Pages ON THIS PAGE Traveling If you get sick with monkeypox during or after travel If you have monkeypox, do not travel Resources RELATED PAGES Prevention Vaccines Testing What to Do If You Are Sick Vaccine Effectiveness VIEW ALL Monkeypox Vaccine Effectiveness SOURCES PRINT SHARE Monkeypox Monkeypox is a viral disease that can be spread between people or between people and certain animals.
View All For Everyone Current Situation U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Natural Disasters and Severe Weather EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Natural Disasters and Severe Weather Cleaning Safely After a Disaster What to Do to Prevent Getting Hurt or Sick After a Disaster Communication Resources Public Service Announcements (PSAs) for Disasters Coping After a Natural Disaster: Resources for Teens VIEW ALL View All APRIL 24, 2024 Keep Pests Out Fact Sheet AT A GLANCE After a disaster, such as a hurricane, rats, mice and other pests might get in your home or building.
Format: PDF Language: English (US) Size: 296 KB View Additional languages Keep Pests Out (Factsheet) - Spanish Download SOURCES PRINT SHARE Natural Disasters Protect yourself and your loved ones by knowing how to prepare for natural disasters and how to stay safe during and after them.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Effectiveness of JYNNEOS Vaccine Against Diagnosed Mpox Infection — New York, 2022 Weekly / May 19, 2023 / 72(20);559–563 Print Eli S.
Rosenberg, PhD1,2,3; Vajeera Dorabawila, PhD1; Rachel Hart-Malloy, PhD1,2,3; Bridget J.
Anderson, PhD1; Wilson Miranda, MPH1; Travis O’Donnell1; Charles J.
Gonzalez, MD1,3; Meaghan Abrego, MPH1; Charlotte DelBarba, MPH1; Cori J.
Tice, MPH1; Claire McGarry, MPH1; Ethan C.
Mitchell, MPH1; Michele Boulais, MPA1; Bryon Backenson, MS1,2; Michael Kharfen1; James McDonald, MD1; Ursula E.
Bauer, PhD1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
The JYNNEOS vaccine was deployed in a national and state vaccination campaign during the 2022 monkeypox (mpox) outbreak.
Postexposure prophylaxis and vaccination of persons at highest risk (primarily men who have sex with men) were prioritized.
Evidence of vaccine effectiveness (VE) from controlled studies has been limited.
What is added by this report?
A comparison of men aged ≥18 years who received a diagnosis of mpox during July 24–October 31 in New York to controls with rectal gonorrhea or primary syphilis, based on systematically collected surveillance data, found adjusted combined 1-dose (received ≥14 days earlier) or 2-dose VE of 75.7%.
What are the implications for public health practice?
These findings support recommended 2-dose JYNNEOS vaccination consistent with CDC and New York State Department of Health guidance.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (57) Blogs (3) Policy documents (3) X (44) Facebook (3) Reddit (1) Clinical guidelines (2) Mendeley (44) 86 86 Total citations 64 Recent citations 60 Field Citation Ratio 11 Relative Citation Ratio Figure Tables Table 1 Table 2 Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF JYNNEOS Vaccine Effectiveness Against Monkeypox Disease in the U.S.
In 2022, an international Monkeypox virus outbreak, characterized by transmission primarily through sexual contact among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM), resulted in 375 monkeypox (mpox) cases in the state of New York outside of New York City (NYC).*,† The JYNNEOS vaccine (Modified Vaccinia Ankara vaccine, Bavarian Nordic), licensed by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) against mpox as a 2-dose series, with doses administered 4 weeks apart,§ was deployed in a national vaccination campaign.¶ Before this outbreak, evidence to support vaccine effectiveness (VE) against mpox was based on human immunologic and animal challenge studies (1–3).
New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) conducted a case-control study to estimate JYNNEOS VE against diagnosed mpox in New York residents outside of NYC, using data from systematic surveillance reporting.
A case-patient was defined as a man aged ≥18 years who received a diagnosis of mpox during July 24–October 31, 2022.
Contemporaneous control patients were men aged ≥18 years with diagnosed rectal gonorrhea or primary syphilis and a history of male-to-male sexual contact, without mpox.
Case-patients and control patients were matched to records in state immunization systems.
JYNNEOS VE was estimated as 1 – odds ratio (OR) x 100, and JYNNEOS vaccination status (vaccinated versus unvaccinated) at the time of diagnosis was compared, using conditional logistic regression models that adjusted for week of diagnosis, region, patient age, and patient race and ethnicity.
Among 252 eligible mpox case-patients and 255 control patients, the adjusted VE of 1 dose (received ≥14 days earlier) or 2 doses combined was 75.7% (95% CI = 48.5%–88.5%); the VE for 1 dose was 68.1% (95% CI = 24.9%–86.5%) and for 2 doses was 88.5% (95% CI = 44.1%–97.6%).
These findings support recommended 2-dose JYNNEOS vaccination consistent with CDC and NYSDOH guidance.
The first mpox case in New York outside NYC was reported on June 2, 2022.
On June 28, the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services’ Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response announced a phased, jurisdictional rollout of the JYNNEOS vaccine from the Strategic National Stockpile, prioritizing postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) and vaccination of persons with recent or ongoing risks for mpox infection.** The first New York allocation of 2,206 vials was received July 6.
By September 12, a total of 35,666 vials had been delivered.†† NYSDOH coordinated vaccine distribution in New York outside NYC with local health departments and community organizations.
All mpox, gonorrhea, and syphilis diagnoses in New York outside of NYC are reportable to NYSDOH.§§ Reports are investigated by public health staff members and entered into the Communicable Disease Electronic Surveillance System (CDESS).
Control patients were males at birth aged ≥18 years with rectal gonorrhea or primary syphilis diagnosed within the same time frame as the mpox cases, and with presumptive sexual contact with a male or transgender person.¶¶ Demographic characteristics of case- and control patients were compared using Wilcoxon rank-sum and Pearson’s chi-square tests.
Case- and control patient records in CDESS were matched to NYSIIS*** by name and date of birth to ascertain JYNNEOS vaccination status and history, an approach similar to that used in a COVID-19 VE study (4).
To estimate adjusted VE, conditional logistic regression models of case- and control patient vaccination status and dose history were used, matched on diagnosis week, with covariates including age, race and ethnicity, and region within New York outside NYC.
VE values (with 95% CIs) were estimated as 1 – OR x 100, comparing each vaccinated category with the unvaccinated group.††† Four sensitivity analyses were conducted to examine uncertainties in case- and control patient definitions.
All 1-dose VE estimates were reported for doses received ≥14 days earlier, unless otherwise specified.
Statistical analyses were carried out using SAS software (version 9.4; SAS Institute).
This analysis was determined to be nonresearch by the NYSDOH Institutional Review Board.
During June 2–December 31, 2022, a total of 375 mpox cases were reported to NYSDOH and the administration of 27,385 JYNNEOS doses was recorded in NYSIIS, including 16,769 (61%) first doses and 10,616 (39%) second doses (Figure).
The reported number of cases peaked in mid-August, 5 weeks after launch of the JYNNEOS vaccination campaign.
During July 24–October 31, a total of 252 male mpox case-patients and 255 STI control patients (175 with rectal gonorrhea and 80 with primary syphilis) met inclusion criteria.
The age distribution was similar for case-patients (median = 32.1 years; range = 18.5–66.4 years) and control patients (median = 31.3 years; range = 19.4–74.3 years) (p = 0.47).
Among 255 control patients, 51 (20%) had received the JYNNEOS vaccine, including 42 (16.5%) who received an STI diagnosis ≥14 days after receiving 1 dose (23; 9.0%) or 2 doses (19; 7.5%).
This corresponded to adjusted VE for combined 1 dose or 2 doses of 75.7% (95% CI = 48.5%–88.5%); 1-dose VE was 68.1% (95% CI = 24.9%–86.5%) and 2-dose VE was 88.5% (95% CI = 44.1%–97.6%).
No significant VE was observed within 13 days of receipt of dose 1.
The first of the four sensitivity analyses (Supplementary Table,  excluded men aged ≥50 years, who might have received a smallpox vaccine before routine nonmilitary U.S.
vaccination ended in 1972; this analysis detected nearly identical VE as the main sensitivity analysis.
The second sensitivity analysis included 71 secondary syphilis diagnoses in the control group, resulting in 1-dose or 2-dose combined VE of 64.8% (95% CI = 26.7%–83.1%).
Among control patients, 213 (83.5%) had known reasons for testing: 88 (41.3%) because of symptoms, 19 (8.9%) because of partner referral, 103 (48.4%) for screening, and three (1.4%) for another reason.
The third analysis restricted control patients to those persons testing for symptoms or referrals; 1-dose or 2-dose VE was 63.6% (95% CI = 8.0%–85.6%).§§§ The final sensitivity analysis limited observations to persons with known race and ethnicity and estimates increased modestly from the primary analysis, with 1-dose or 2-dose VE of 80.5% (95% CI = 56.1%–91.3%).
These findings support the approved use of the JYNNEOS vaccine as a 2-dose series for mpox prevention and, amid ongoing sexually related transmission of mpox, incorporating the JYNNEOS vaccine into a broader program of sexual health services.
Before this outbreak, evidence to support VE against mpox was based on human immunologic and animal challenge studies (1–3).
Since the outbreak began, new estimates have been generated.
CDC used multi-jurisdictional data on mpox patient vaccination status to estimate 9.6- and 7.4-fold incidence for unvaccinated at-risk males compared with 2-dose and 1-dose recipients, respectively (5,6).
A similar United Kingdom analysis found 78% 1-dose VE,¶¶¶ and an Israeli cohort study found 86% 1-dose VE (7).
These cohort studies are subject to biases; at-risk unvaccinated population estimates are uncertain and afford limited ability to control for confounding variables.
For example, incidence among vaccinated persons might be reduced by persons with lower risk behaviors seeking vaccination, inflating incidence risk ratios and VE estimates.
Case-control studies such as this one and others (8) can build in control for both risk factors and test-seeking, which was achieved in this study by sampling persons with diagnosed infections.
VE was moderately high according to the results of all sensitivity analyses.
Lower VE observed when including secondary syphilis might reflect control patients with more remote risk behaviors or different clinical presentation.
Lower VE when limiting control patients to persons who had testing because of symptoms or partner referral could reflect intended removal of persons at lower risk seeking health care or inadvertent removal of persons at higher risk accessing frequent screening.
Additional studies are needed to resolve these scenarios, with control groups better selected for studying PEP.
The findings in this report are subject to at least six limitations.
First, uncontrolled confounding might remain, which could lead to under- or overestimation of VE.
For example, some factors might positively link persons more likely to acquire mpox and receive the JYNNEOS vaccine, compared with the overall population of persons who acquire an STI.
These factors would render observed VE as underestimates.
Second, JYNNEOS vaccine doses might be undercounted.
Reporting doses to NYSIIS was optional before the July 29 state executive order mandated reporting; however, reporting was determined to be mostly complete via inventory surveys.**** Doses administered to New York residents while out of state are not reported to NYSIIS, unless entered afterward by an in-state provider.
Both undercounts would cause nondifferential misclassification of coverage, lowering observed VE.
Third, as with other studies, it was not possible to account for postvaccination behavior change; however, to the extent that vaccinated case- and control patients became infected in the postvaccination period, observed VE would represent unbiased estimates for those with ongoing risk.
Fourth, the outbreak trajectory precluded determining duration of protection.
Fifth, data were insufficient to calculate VE by subcutaneous or intradermal administration modes or by HIV-related factors.
Finally, the findings describe diagnosed, symptomatic mpox, but not prevention of asymptomatic infection or secondary transmission.
The mpox outbreak rapidly declined during summer 2022 after extensive public health and vaccination efforts and individual behavior changes (9).
How much decline was attributable to VE, behavior changes, or seasonal variation in viral transmission or behavior is unknown†††† (9,10).
Nonetheless, this study leveraged systematically collected patient and vaccine registry data to demonstrate a protective effect of the JYNNEOS vaccine, controlling for outbreak trajectory, among persons with behavioral risk.
Global mpox spread continues and might accelerate during summer 2023, given remaining unvaccinated persons with behavioral risk§§§§ These findings support recommended 2-dose JYNNEOS vaccination consistent with CDC and NYSDOH guidance.¶¶¶¶ Top Acknowledgments New York county health departments and community-based organizations that partnered in vaccination efforts; New York State Department of Health staff members who supported vaccination efforts; Ellen Klingler, Preeti Pathela, Jennifer Rosen, Jane Zucker, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; Srikanth Bomma, New York State Department of Health.
Top Corresponding author: Eli S.
Rosenberg, eli.rosenberg@health.ny.gov.
Top 1New York State Department of Health; 2Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University at Albany, Rensselaer, New York; 3Center for Collaborative HIV Research in Practice and Policy, School of Public Health, University at Albany, Rensselaer, New York.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
Gonzalez reports Ryan White Part B support from the Health Resources and Services Administration, including travel or support for attending meetings and participation on an advisory board for the Center for AIDS Research Supplement for Designing Differentiated PrEP Service Delivery Models for Implementation in New York City Emergency Departments, through the PrEP-ED Community Collaborative.
No other potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
*  †  § The JYNNEOS vaccine is FDA-licensed for 0.5 mL doses, administered subcutaneously.
Beginning August 9, 2022, FDA authorized 0.1 mL intradermal administration as a dose-sparing strategy, based on available evidence.
NYSDOH implemented intradermal administration on August 29, 2022, after a brief transition period.
¶  **  ††  §§  ¶¶ Persons reported as male mpox case-patients were presumed to be MSM in this analysis (among 70% of patients with recorded sexual activity within 21 days, 85% reported male or transgender partners).
All rectal gonorrhea diagnoses were included (among 63% of patients with partner data, 98% reported male or transgender partners).
For primary syphilis, diagnoses were excluded if the person reported no male-to-male sexual contact (84% reported risk factor data).
*** Doses of JYNNEOS vaccine administered in New York outside of NYC are reportable to NYSIIS.
Doses given to persons in NYC are reported to the Citywide Immunization Registry, which sends all non-NYC New York residents’ records to NYSIIS.
††† Two separate models considered the main four-level dose classification and one that combined “≥14 days after dose 1” and “dose 2” into a single level.
§§§ STIs detected via asymptomatic screening might have been acquired several weeks or months previously, whereas symptomatic STIs are likely more recently acquired.
Thus, persons with STIs detected via asymptomatic screening might be at lower current risk for mpox than are persons with symptomatic STIs.
Also, persons with health-seeking behaviors (such as STI screening) might be more likely to receive the JYNNEOS vaccine.
Alternatively, because asymptomatic screening is recommended annually for all sexually active MSM and every 3–6 months for those with increased behavioral risk, sampling routinely screening MSM might select for those at elevated risk for mpox.
 ¶¶¶  **** A weekly NYSDOH inventory survey of all counties tracked aggregate JYNNEOS dose administrations and found 4,460 more doses administered than were in NYSIIS in the period before mandatory reporting.
These doses account for 15% of doses administered during the study analytic period.
††††  §§§§  ¶¶¶¶  Top References Pittman PR, Hahn M, Lee HS, et al.
Phase 3 efficacy trial of Modified Vaccinia Ankara as a vaccine against smallpox.
N Engl J Med 2019;381:1897–908.
 PMID:31722150 Frey SE, Wald A, Edupuganti S, et al.
Comparison of lyophilized versus liquid Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) formulations and subcutaneous versus intradermal routes of administration in healthy vaccinia-naïve subjects.
Vaccine 2015;33:5225–34.
 PMID:26143613 Earl PL, Americo JL, Wyatt LS, et al.
Rapid protection in a monkeypox model by a single injection of a replication-deficient vaccinia virus.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2008;105:10889–94.
 PMID:18678911 Rosenberg ES, Dorabawila V, Easton D, et al.
COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness in New York state.
N Engl J Med 2022;386:116–27.
 PMID:34942067 Payne AB, Ray LC, Cole MM, et al.
Reduced risk for mpox after receipt of 1 or 2 doses of JYNNEOS vaccine compared with risk among unvaccinated persons—43 U.S.
jurisdictions, July 31–October 1, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1560–4.
 PMID:36480479 Payne AB, Ray LC, Kugeler KJ, et al.
Incidence of monkeypox among unvaccinated persons compared with persons receiving ≥1 JYNNEOS vaccine dose—32 U.S.
jurisdictions, July 31–September 3, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1278–82.
 PMID:36201401 Wolff Sagy Y, Zucker R, Hammerman A, et al.
Real-world effectiveness of a single dose of mpox vaccine in males.
Nat Med 2023;29:748–52.
 PMID:36720271 Dalton AF, Diallo AO, Chard AN, et al.
Estimated effectiveness of JYNNEOS vaccine in preventing mpox: a multijurisdictional case-control study—United States, August 19, 2022–March 31, 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022; 72:553-8.
 PMID:33984065 Delaney KP, Sanchez T, Hannah M, et al.
Strategies adopted by gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men to prevent monkeypox virus transmission—United States, August 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1126–30.
 PMID:36048582 Spicknall IH, Pollock ED, Clay PA, et al.
Modeling the impact of sexual networks in the transmission of Monkeypox virus among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men—United States, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1131–5.
 PMID:36048619 Top FIGURE.
Reported mpox cases and first and second JYNNEOS vaccine doses administered, by week — New York,* June 2–December 31, 2022 Abbreviation: Mpox = monkeypox.
* Outside of New York City.
Top TABLE 1.
Demographic characteristics of case-patients with mpox and control patients with sexually transmitted infections* — New York,† July 24, 2022–October 31, 2022 Characteristic No.
* Men with diagnosed rectal gonorrhea or primary syphilis and a history of male-to-male sexual contact.
† Outside of New York City.
§ For race and ethnicity, the percentages and chi-square p-values are among case-patients and control patients for whom race and ethnicity were known.
¶ Includes Nassau, Putnam, Rockland, Suffolk, and Westchester counties.
Top TABLE 2.
JYNNEOS vaccination history and estimated vaccine effectiveness among case-patients with mpox and control patients with sexually transmitted infections — New York,* July 24, 2022–October 31, 2022 Vaccination status Mpox case-patients (n = 252) All STI controls (n = 255) No.
* Outside of New York City.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Rosenberg ES, Dorabawila V, Hart-Malloy R, et al.
Effectiveness of JYNNEOS Vaccine Against Diagnosed Mpox Infection — New York, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:559–563.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
View Page In: Article PDF Full Issue PDF JYNNEOS Vaccine Effectiveness Against Monkeypox Disease in the U.S.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Posible riesgo de salud pública para las personas que piden medicamentos recetados falsificados de farmacias en línea DECLARACIÓN DE LOS CDC Para publicación inmediata: 3 de octubre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) están informando a funcionarios de salud pública, médicos, y a pacientes afectados, sus familias y cuidadores, acerca de un posible riesgo de salud pública para las personas que piden lo que creen que son medicamentos recetados de farmacias en línea.
El 30 de septiembre del 2024, el Departamento de Justicia de los Estados Unidos (DOJ) anunció la presentación formal de cargos contra personas que operan farmacias en línea ilegales.
Según el DOJ, estas personas promocionan, venden, fabrican y envían millones de pastillas recetadas falsificadas y no reguladas a decenas de miles de personas en los Estados Unidos.
Las pastillas falsificadas con frecuencia contienen fentanilo, un opioide sintético que es hasta 50 veces más fuerte que la heroína y 100 veces más fuerte que la morfina, y metanfetamina.
Las personas que pidieron medicamentos de estas farmacias ilegales podrían estar en riesgo de tener una sobredosis.
La Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos de los EE.
(FDA) advierte que hay farmacias en línea que dicen vender medicamentos recetados a precios muy descontados, con frecuencia sin requerir una receta médica.
Estas farmacias en Internet a menudo venden medicamentos no aprobados, falsificados o que por otra razón no son seguros fuera de las salvaguardias seguidas por las farmacias con licencia.
Las personas deben tomar solo medicamentos recetados por un proveedor de atención médica con licencia y dispensados por una farmacia con licencia.
Según la Asociación Nacional de Juntas de Farmacias, cerca del 95 % de los sitios web que ofrecen medicamentos solo con receta en línea operan de manera ilegal.
Si usted, o alguien que conoce, ha comprado pastillas de una farmacia en línea: Verifique si la farmacia tiene una licencia de un estado de los Estados Unidos.
Encuentre una farmacia en línea con licencia estatal | FDA .
Si ha obtenido medicamentos de una farmacia que no tiene licencia de un estado de los Estados Unidos, no use el medicamento.
Si sospecha que tiene pastillas falsificadas de una farmacia en línea ilegal, no las tome.
Deséchelas de manera segura .
Cuídese de farmacias en línea que: No requieran la receta de un médico.
No tengan licencia en los Estados Unidos ni de la junta de farmacias de su estado.
Ofrezcan grandes descuentos o precios que parecen ser demasiado buenos para ser reales.
Tenga siempre a mano naloxona, un medicamento para revertir una sobredosis de opioides.
La naloxona se debe administrar de inmediato como respuesta a cualquier persona que muestre signos de una sobredosis de opioides.
Cuando tome una sustancia o un medicamento desconocidos, siempre tenga a alguien cerca, por si ocurre una emergencia.
En el caso de una emergencia por intoxicación o envenenamiento, llame al 911 y busque atención médica de inmediato.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de una sustancia desconocida, comuníquese con el Centro de Control de Intoxicaciones y Envenenamientos (llame al 1-800-222-1222 o visite  ).
La campaña BeSafeRx de la FDA ayuda a los consumidores a informarse sobre cómo comprar de manera segura medicamentos recetados en línea:  PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC confirman nuevos casos en seres humanos de la influenza aviar H5 en California Los CDC confirman un tercer caso de la influenza aviar H5 en seres humanos en California Declaración de los CDC sobre los casos de enfermedad por el virus de Marburgo en Ruanda Disminuye la cantidad de notificaciones de nuevos casos de personas enfermas; los CDC siguen investigando el brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes de la sección deli VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Declaración de los CDC sobre los casos de enfermedad por el virus de Marburgo en Ruanda FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All OCTOBER 17, 2024 Youth and Tobacco Use WHAT TO KNOW Use of tobacco products, in any form, is unsafe.
Preventing tobacco product use among youth is critical to reducing tobacco use into adulthood.
Review the data about youth tobacco use by product type.
Overview Tobacco products, in any form, are unsafe.
This is especially true for children, teens, and young adults.
Tobacco products contain nicotine, which is highly addictive and can harm the developing brain.1 Preventing tobacco product use among youth is critical to reducing tobacco use among the nation's youth.
Tobacco product use is started and established primarily during adolescence.23 Nearly 9 out of 10 adults who smoke cigarettes daily first try smoking by age 18.
In 2024, approximately two in five students who had ever used a tobacco product currently used them.4 Flavorings in tobacco products can make them more appealing to youth.56 In the United States in 2024: 88.2% of high school students and 85.7% of middle school students who used e-cigarettes in the past 30 days reported using a flavored e-cigarette during that time.7 86.1% of high school students and 85.4% of middle school students who used nicotine pouches in the past 30 days reported using flavored pouches during that time.7 KEEP READING: Learn more about trends in tobacco use among youth.
Estimates of current tobacco use among youth Current Tobacco Use among U.S.
Middle and High School Students in 2024.
Electronic cigarettes (E-cigarettes) E-cigarettes have been the most commonly used tobacco product among youth since 2014.
In 2024, 1 out of every 29 middle school students (3.5%) reported that they had used electronic cigarettes in the past 30 days.7 In 2024, 1 of every 13 high school students (7.8%) reported that they had used electronic cigarettes in the past 30 days.7 Nicotine pouches In 2024, 1 of every 100 middle school students (1.0%) and 1 of every 42 high school students (2.4%) reported using nicotine pouches in the past 30 days.7 Nicotine pouches are microfiber pouches with flavored nicotine powder that users dissolve in the mouth without spitting.
Sales of nicotine pouches have increased rapidly in the U.S.8 Cigarettes In 2024, 1 of every 91 middle school students (1.1%) reported that they had smoked cigarettes in the past 30 days.4 In 2024, nearly 1 of every 59 high school students (1.7%) reported that they had smoked cigarettes in the past 30 days.4 Cigars In 2024, 1 of every 125 middle school students (0.8%) reported that they had smoked cigars in the past 30 days.4 In 2024, 1 of every 67 high school students (1.5%) reported that they had smoked cigars in the past 30 days.4 Smokeless tobacco In 2024, 1 of every 125 middle school students (0.8%) reported that they had had used smokeless tobacco in the past 30 days.4 In 2024, 1 of every 67 high school students (1.5%) reported that they had had used smokeless tobacco in the past 30 days.4 Heated tobacco products In 2024, 1 of every 143 middle school students (0.7%) and 1 of every 111 high school students (0.9%) reported using heated tobacco products in the past 30 days.4 Heated tobacco products, also known as "heat-not-burn" products, deliver nicotine to the user by heating tobacco leaves rather than a nicotine-containing liquid like e-cigarettes.
Hookah In 2024, 1 of every 167 middle school students (0.6%) reported that they had smoked hookah in the past 30 days.4 In 2024, 1 of every 125 high school students (0.8%) reported that they had smoked hookah in the past 30 days.4 All tobacco product use In 2024, 1 of every 19 middle school students (5.4%) and 1 of every 10 high school students (10.1%) reported current use of a tobacco product.4 In 2024, 1 of every 8 middle school students (12.9%) and nearly 1 of every 4 high school students (23.6%) said they had ever tried a tobacco product.4 Many young people use multiple tobacco products.
In 2024, 1 of every 48 middle school students (2.1%) and 1 of every 27 high school students (3.7%) reported current use of multiple tobacco products in the past 30 days.4 In 2024, 1 of every 19 middle school students (5.4%) and 1 of every 9 high school students (10.9%) reported they had ever tried multiple tobacco products.4 Fact Youth who use multiple tobacco products are at higher risk for developing nicotine dependence and might be more likely to continue using tobacco products into adulthood.23 Current Tobacco Product Use* Among High School Students in 20244 Tobacco Product Overall Girls Boys Any tobacco product† 10.1% 9.3% 10.9% Electronic cigarettes 7.8% 7.7% 7.8% Nicotine Pouches 2.4% 0.8 3.9% Cigarettes 1.7% 1.1% 2.2% Cigars 1.5% 1.0% 2.1% Smokeless tobacco 1.5% 0.6% 2.3% Other oral nicotine products§ 1.4% 0.9% 2.0% Heated tobacco products 0.9% 0.7% 1.0% Hookah 0.8% 0.7% 0.9% Pipe tobacco 0.5% 0.4% 0.6% Notes: *"Current use" is determined by respondents indicating that they have used a tobacco product on at least 1 day during the past 30 days.
†In 2024, any tobacco product included e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco (composite), pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), hookahs, heated tobacco products, nicotine pouches, and other oral nicotine products.
§Other oral nicotine products includes lozenges, discs, tablets, gums, dissolvable tobacco products, and other products.
Current Tobacco Product Use* Among Middle School Students in 20244 Tobacco Product Overall Girls Boys Any tobacco product† 5.4% 5.5% 5.3% Electronic cigarettes 3.5% 3.9% 3.1% Nicotine Pouches 1.0% 0.9% 1.1% Cigarettes 1.1% 1.2% 0.9% Cigars 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% Smokeless tobacco 0.8% 0.7% 1.0% Other oral nicotine products§ 0.9% 0.9% 0.8% Heated tobacco products 0.7% 0.7% 0.8% Hookah 0.6% 0.7% 0.4% Pipe tobacco 0.5% 0.4% 0.5% Notes: *"Current use" is determined by respondents indicating that they have used a tobacco product on at least 1 day during the past 30 days.
†In 2024, any tobacco product included e-cigarettes, cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus), hookah, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), or other oral nicotine products.
§Other oral nicotine products includes lozenges, discs, tablets, gums, dissolvable tobacco products, and other products.
Factors associated with youth tobacco product use Factors associated with youth tobacco product use include the following: Social and physical environments3910 The way mass media show tobacco product use as a normal activity can make young people want to try these products.
Youth are more likely to use tobacco products if they see people their age using these products.
High school athletes are more likely to use smokeless tobacco than those of the same age who are not athletes.10 Young people may be more likely to use tobacco products if a parent uses these products.
Biological and genetic factors239 There is evidence that youth may be sensitive to nicotine and that teens can feel dependent on nicotine sooner than adults.
Genetic factors may make quitting smoking harder for young people.
Smoking during pregnancy may increase the likelihood that the child will smoke cigarettes regularly in the future.
Mental health: There is a strong relationship between youth smoking and depression, anxiety, and stress.3 Personal views: When young people expect positive things from smoking, such as coping with stress better or losing weight, they are more likely to smoke.39 Other influences that affect youth tobacco use include:39 Lower socioeconomic status, including lower income or education Not knowing how to say "no" to tobacco product use Lack of support or involvement from parents Accessibility, availability, and price of tobacco products Doing poorly in school Low self-image or self-esteem Seeing tobacco product advertising in stores, on television, the Internet, in movies, or in magazines and newspapers Youth are more likely to use tobacco products if they see people their age using these products.
Reducing youth tobacco product use National, state, and local program activities have been shown to reduce and prevent youth tobacco product use when implemented together.31112 These activities include: Enacting higher costs for tobacco products (for example, through increased taxes)312 Prohibiting smoking in indoor areas of workplaces and public places312 Raising the minimum age of sale for tobacco products to 21 years311 Using TV and radio commercials, posters, and other media messages aimed at kids and teens in order to counter tobacco product ads312 Engaging community programs and school and college policies that encourage tobacco-free places and lifestyles311 Developing community programs that lower tobacco advertising, promotions, and help make tobacco products less easily available312 Some social and environmental factors are related to lower smoking levels among youth.
Among these are:3 Being part of a religious group or tradition Racial/ethnic pride and strong racial identity Higher academic achievement It is important to keep working to prevent and reduce the use of all forms of tobacco product use among youth.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Estimates of current tobacco use among youth Factors associated with youth tobacco product use Reducing youth tobacco product use SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Environmental Health SEARCH NCEH Divisions About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding 2024 Year in Review Projects VIEW ALL Food Safety Tips for Dining Out Going out to eat?
Read our tips to protect yourself from food poisoning while dining out.
Learn More Environmental Health Topics Be Ready for Radiation Emergencies Learn about radiation emergencies and what to do to protect yourself, your family, and your pets.
Resources About Heat and Your Health Radiation Emergencies About Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Asthma Radiation and Your Health Mold About Vessel Sanitation Program National Biomonitoring Program About Noise-Induced Hearing Loss About Environmental Public Health Tracking About Air Quality Climate and Health About the National Exposure Report Overview of CASPER NCEH Divisions About Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice DEHSP prevents exposures to environmental health hazards through applied public health science and p...
About The Division of Laboratory Sciences CDC's Division of Laboratory Sciences diagnoses disease, tests for chemical exposure, aids labs, and Resources About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding NCEH We work to prevent illness, disability, and death from contacts between people and the environment.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Disminuye la cantidad de notificaciones de nuevos casos de personas enfermas; los CDC siguen investigando el brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes de la sección deli ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para su publicación inmediata, miércoles, 25 de septiembre del 2024 Para publicación inmediata: 25 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286  Los CDC han publicado una actualización de una alerta sobre la seguridad de los alimentos con respecto a un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Listeria monocytogenes: Brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes cortadas de la sección deli | Infección por Listeria | CDC.
Puntos clave: Desde la última actualización del 28 de agosto, se han notificado otros dos casos de personas enfermas y otro caso de muerte.
La muerte se notificó en Nueva York.
Hasta el del 25 de septiembre, 19 estados han notificado un total de 59 personas infectadas por la cepa de Listeria del brote.
Las 59 personas han sido hospitalizadas y hubo 10 muertes.
Las notificaciones de casos de personas enfermas han empezado a disminuir, y los CDC actualizarán este aviso con menos frecuencia.
Ya que puede tomar hasta 10 semanas para que algunas personas presenten síntomas de listeriosis, los CDC continuarán recolectando información por un tiempo y notificarán la información nueva en cuanto esté disponible.
No coma carnes de la sección deli retiradas del mercado.
Algunos de los productos tienen fechas límite de venta que llegan hasta octubre del 2024.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma productos de la sección deli retirados del mercado .
Deséchelos o comuníquese con las tiendas para devolverlos.
Las personas que tienen mayor riesgo de enfermarse por Listeria —como las que están embarazadas, las que tienen 65 años o más, o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado— siempre deben evitar comer carnes frías cortadas en los mostradores de la sección deli, a menos que las calienten hasta que alcancen una temperatura interna de 165 °F o hasta que les salga vapor justo antes de servirlas.
Limpie su refrigerador, los recipientes y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con carnes frías cortadas en la sección deli.
Llame a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene síntomas de infección por Listeria y recientemente comió carnes frías cortadas en los mostradores de la sección deli.
Los negocios que recibieron carnes frías retiradas del mercado deberían tomar precauciones adicionales, como limpiar, higienizar y desechar las carnes frías y los quesos de la sección deli cortados y abiertos.
Los negocios deberían también seguir las mejores prácticas del Servicio de Inocuidad e Inspección de los Alimentos del Departamento de Agricultura de los EE.
(USDA-FSIS) para controlar la contaminación por Listeria en áreas deli.
Acerca de la Listeria: La Listeria puede causar una enfermedad grave (conocida como listeriosis invasiva) cuando las bacterias se propagan más allá de los intestinos a otras partes del cuerpo.
Las personas embarazadas generalmente solo presentan fiebre, fatiga y dolores musculares.
Sin embargo, las infecciones por Listeria durante el embarazo pueden causar aborto espontáneo, muerte fetal, parto prematuro, o infecciones potencialmente mortales en el recién nacido.
Las personas que no están embarazadas podrían presentar dolor de cabeza, rigidez en el cuello, confusión, pérdida del equilibrio y convulsiones, además de fiebre y dolores musculares.
Los síntomas de enfermedad grave por lo general aparecen de 1 a 4 semanas después de haber comido el alimento contaminado de Listeria, pero podrían aparecer tan pronto como el mismo día o tan tarde como 70 días después.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC 404-639-3286 Media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Posible riesgo de salud pública para las personas que piden medicamentos recetados falsificados de farmacias en línea Declaración de los CDC sobre los casos de enfermedad por el virus de Marburgo en Ruanda Los CDC otorgan más de $176 millones para reforzar la infraestructura y la fuerza laboral de salud pública Nuevos datos de los CDC muestran que la prevalencia de la obesidad en adultos sigue siendo alta VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC otorgan más de $176 millones para reforzar la infraestructura y la fuerza laboral de salud pública FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Tobacco Product Use Among U.S.
Middle and High School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, 2023 Weekly / November 3, 2023 / 72(44);1173–1182 Print Jan Birdsey, MPH1; Monica Cornelius, PhD1; Ahmed Jamal, MBBS1; Eunice Park-Lee, PhD2; Maria R.
Cooper, PhD2; Jia Wang, MPH2; Michael D.
Sawdey, PhD2; Karen A.
Cullen, PhD2; Linda Neff, PhD1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Use of tobacco products in any form by youths is unsafe.
What is added by this report?
In 2023, 10.0% of middle and high school students reported current tobacco product use.
From 2022 to 2023, current e-cigarette use among high school students declined from 14.1% to 10.0%.
E-cigarettes remained the most commonly used tobacco product among youths.
Among middle school and high school students who currently use e-cigarettes, 25.2% used e-cigarettes daily, and 89.4% used flavored e-cigarettes.
What are the implications for public health?
Tobacco use declined among high school students; however, sustained public health monitoring with implementation of evidence-based tobacco control strategies, including effective youth interventions, media campaigns, Food and Drug Administration regulations, and other proven tobacco prevention policies might further reduce youth tobacco product use.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (327) Blogs (11) Policy documents (2) X (353) Facebook (4) Wikipedia (2) Bluesky (2) Mendeley (160) 352 352 Total citations 347 Recent citations 270 Field Citation Ratio 59 Relative Citation Ratio Tables Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF Abstract Tobacco product use during adolescence increases the risk for lifelong nicotine addiction and adverse health consequences.
CDC and the Food and Drug Administration analyzed data from the 2023 National Youth Tobacco Survey to assess tobacco product use patterns among U.S.
middle school (grades 6–8) and high school (grades 9–12) students.
In 2023, 10.0% of middle and high school students (2.80 million) reported current (i.e., past 30-day) use of any tobacco product.
Current use of any tobacco product by high school students declined by an estimated 540,000, from 2.51 million in 2022 to 1.97 million in 2023.
From 2022 to 2023, current e-cigarette use among high school students declined from 14.1% to 10.0%.
Among middle and high school students, e-cigarette products were the most used tobacco product in 2023 (7.7%; 2.13 million), followed by cigarettes (1.6%), cigars (1.6%), nicotine pouches (1.5%), smokeless tobacco (1.2%), other oral nicotine products (1.2%), hookahs (1.1%), heated tobacco products (1.0%), and pipe tobacco (0.5%).
Among students who had ever used an e-cigarette, 46.7% reported current use.
In 2023, among students reporting current e-cigarette use, 89.4% used flavored products and 25.2% used an e-cigarette daily; the most commonly reported brands were Elf Bar, Esco Bars, Vuse, JUUL, and Mr.
Given the number of middle and high school students that use tobacco products, sustained efforts to prevent initiation of tobacco product use among young persons and strategies to help young tobacco users quit are critical to reducing U.S.
youth tobacco product use.
Top Introduction Commercial tobacco use* among U.S.
youths can lead to lifelong nicotine addiction (1) and subsequent disability, disease, and death (2).
This report presents findings from the 2023 National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) and describes the prevalence of ever use (i.e., ever having used, even once or twice) and current use of nine tobacco product types, flavored tobacco products, and e-cigarette use behaviors among U.S.
middle and high school students.
In addition, 2023 NYTS results are compared with those reported for 2022 NYTS data (3).
Top Methods Data Collection The NYTS is a cross-sectional, school-based, self-administered web-based survey of U.S.
middle and high school students.
A stratified, three-stage cluster sampling procedure was used to generate a nationally representative sample of U.S.
students attending private or public middle (grades 6–8) and high (grades 9–12) schools.
In 2023, data were collected during March 9–June 16; a total of 22,069 students from 179 schools participated, with an overall response rate of 30.5%.
Data Analysis National weighted prevalence estimates, 95% CIs, and population totals† were calculated for ever use (i.e., ever having used, even once or twice) and current use (i.e., use on ≥1 days during the past 30 days) of nine commercial tobacco products§ (e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, nicotine pouches,¶ hookahs, pipe tobacco, heated tobacco products,** and other oral nicotine products) by student characteristics.
Three composite measures were also reported for use of any tobacco product,†† any combustible tobacco product,§§ and multiple tobacco products.¶¶ Current e-cigarette use (i.e., use on ≥1 day during the past 30 days) was reported by frequency of use, device type,*** brand,††† and flavor.§§§ Changes in current-use prevalence since 2022 were estimated using t-tests; details of the 2022 NYTS data collection and estimates have been published previously (3).
Analyses were conducted using SAS-callable SUDAAN software (version 11.0.4; Research Triangle Institute).
This activity was reviewed by CDC, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.¶¶¶ Top Results Tobacco Product Use by Population In 2023, 22.2% of U.S.
middle and high school students reported ever using any tobacco product, corresponding to 6.21 million persons (Table 1); 10.0% of students reported current use of any tobacco product, corresponding to 2.80 million persons (Table 2).
Overall, current use of any tobacco product was reported by 11.2% of female, 8.9% of male, 12.6% of non-Hispanic multiracial (multiracial), 11.7% of Hispanic or Latino (Hispanic), 9.5% of non-Hispanic White (White), 9.3% of non-Hispanic Black or African American (Black), and 8.0% of non-Hispanic American Indian or Alaska Native (AI/AN) students.**** Current use of any combustible tobacco product was reported by 4.7% of Black, 3.9% of Hispanic, 3.7% of multiracial, and 2.7% of White and AI/AN students.
Types of Tobacco Products Used E-cigarettes were the most commonly reported currently used tobacco product among all students (7.7%) and both middle school (4.6%) and high school students (10.0%).
Other currently used tobacco products included cigarettes (1.6%), cigars (1.6%), nicotine pouches (1.5%), smokeless tobacco (1.2%), other oral nicotine products (1.2%), hookahs (1.1%), heated tobacco products (1.0%), and pipe tobacco (0.5%).
Among students who had ever used e-cigarettes, 46.7% reported current e-cigarette use.
Characteristics of E-cigarette Use Among students reporting current e-cigarette use, 25.2% reported using e-cigarettes daily.
Frequent use (≥20 of the past 30 days) was reported by 34.7% of current e-cigarette users (Table 3).
Disposable e-cigarettes were the most commonly reported device type used (60.7%), followed by prefilled or refillable pods or cartridges (16.1%), and tanks or mod systems (modifiable devices allowing users to customize the substances in the device) (5.9%).
Among students who currently used e-cigarettes, Elf Bar was the most commonly reported brand (56.7%), followed by Esco Bars (21.6%), Vuse (20.7%), JUUL (16.5%), and Mr.
Fog (13.6%).
Among students reporting current e-cigarette use, 89.4% reported using a flavored product during the past 30 days, excluding those who only used tobacco-flavored or unflavored e-cigarettes (Table 3).
Among students who currently used e-cigarettes, fruit- (63.4%) and candy- (35.0%) flavored categories were reported most commonly; 6.4% of students reported use of tobacco-flavored e-cigarettes.
Among those who currently used disposable e-cigarettes, the top reported flavor categories were fruit (70.5%), candy (39.8%), mint (32.0%), menthol (18.7%), unflavored (7.8%), alcoholic drinks (7.2%), and tobacco-flavored (5.4%) (Supplementary Table 1, 
Among students reporting current use of any tobacco product, 86.9% used a flavored product, ranging from 40.4% of cigarette users (menthol) to 89.4% of e-cigarette users (Supplementary Table 2, 
Among students currently using tobacco products, use of products with “ice” or “iced”†††† included in the flavor name was reported by 57.9% of e-cigarette users, 25.9% of nicotine pouch users, and 22.6% of cigar users; use of concept flavors§§§§ was reported by 16.1% of e-cigarette users and 13.4% of cigar users (Supplementary Table 3, 
Among middle school and high school students combined, no significant change in current use of any composite measure or individual tobacco product was observed.
Top Discussion Current use of any tobacco product by high school students declined by an estimated 540,000 students, from 2.51 million in 2022 (3) to 1.97 million in 2023.
In 2023, 22.2% of middle and high school students (representing 6.21 million) reported ever using any tobacco product, and 10.0% of students (representing 2.80 million) reported current use of any tobacco product.
Similar to 2022 (3), ever use of any tobacco product was lowest among non-Hispanic Asian students and did not differ significantly across most racial and ethnic groups.
E-cigarettes have been the most commonly used tobacco product among U.S.
youths since 2014 (4).
Youth e-cigarette use is a critical public health concern, because approximately one half of students ever using e-cigarettes reported using them currently, indicating that many young persons who try e-cigarettes remain e-cigarette users.
In 2023, 10.0% of high school students and 4.6% of middle school students used e-cigarettes during the past 30 days.
From 2022 (3) to 2023, a significant decline in current e-cigarette use occurred among high school students (from 14.1% to 10.0%), while no statistically significant change occurred among middle school students (from 3.3% in 2022 to 4.6% in 2023).
The decline since 2022 in high school student e-cigarette use is likely attributable to multiple factors, such as ongoing efforts at the national, state, and local levels to implement tobacco control strategies, including Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory actions.
Continued surveillance is needed to determine the trajectory of middle school e-cigarette use.
Despite the decline in e-cigarette use among high school students, close to 40% of high school students using e-cigarettes reported frequent use, and 29.9% reported daily use.
Furthermore, 550,000 middle school students currently used e-cigarettes, including 20.7% reporting frequent use.
Similar patterns were observed in 2022 for both middle school and high school students.
These findings are concerning, because adolescents have reported symptoms of nicotine dependence when using tobacco products only 1–3 days per month (1).
Efforts aimed at reducing nicotine dependence among adolescents by preventing initiation of tobacco products is important (5).
Among students who reported current e-cigarette use, disposables were the most commonly used device type.
Disposable e-cigarettes have been gaining market share; they are relatively inexpensive, have a high nicotine content, and are available in flavors appealing to youths (e.g., fruit and candy) (6).
In January 2020, FDA announced that it would prioritize enforcement against prefilled e-cigarettes in flavors other than tobacco and menthol (7).
In 2023, NYTS for the first time assessed tobacco-flavored product use, use of flavors that included the word “ice” or “iced” in their name, and use of concept flavors.
These results, combined with results of other flavored tobacco product use research, continue to demonstrate the high appeal of flavored tobacco products among young persons.
Multiple factors continue to influence tobacco product use and initiation among middle and high school students, including availability of flavored products, marketing, and misperceptions regarding harm.
Continued surveillance provides an understanding of the prevalence and frequency of tobacco product use, the popularity of specific brands and flavors, and how product use behaviors change over time as the tobacco product marketplace continues to diversify.
Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, data were obtained by self-report, which can result in social desirability and recall biases, although previous research suggests that self-reported measures of tobacco use among persons aged 12–21 years correlate with biomarkers of tobacco use (8).
Second, these findings might not be generalizable to youths who are home-schooled, have dropped out of school, are in detention centers, or are enrolled in alternative schools.
Finally, the response rate for the 2023 NYTS was lower than that for the 2022 NYTS (30.5% in 2023 versus 45.2% in 2022).
The lower response rate can increase the potential for bias and result in higher SEs for some estimates; higher SEs can reduce the power to detect a significant difference, if there is one, when doing year to year comparisons, especially for certain population groups.
Adjustments were made to the survey weights to reduce the potential for nonresponse bias.
Therefore, 2023 NYTS estimates may be compared with 2022 NYTS estimates for the same population groups.
Implications for Public Health Practice In 2023, 10.0% (representing 2.80 million) of U.S.
middle and high school students reported current tobacco product use.
A significant decline in current e-cigarette use occurred among high school students from 2022 to 2023 (from 14.1% to 10.0%).
Given the negative health consequences of tobacco use (2) and the unique harms associated with adolescent nicotine exposure (1), prevention of tobacco use by youths is imperative.
Thus, a continued comprehensive approach to tobacco use prevention is needed to further reduce tobacco use among youths, based on knowledge about youth product use behaviors.
Further, longstanding and proven tobacco prevention policies, such as price increases, comprehensive smoke-free policies (that include e-cigarettes), counter-marketing campaigns, and health care intervention, will continue to reduce youth initiation and tobacco use (5).
Top Corresponding author: Jan Birdsey, JBirdsey@cdc.gov.
Top 1Office on Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC; 2Center for Tobacco Products, Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, Maryland.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * The term “tobacco” as used in this report refers to commercial tobacco products and not to sacred and traditional use of tobacco by some American Indian communities.
† Data were weighted to account for complex survey design and to adjust for nonresponse.
The weighted proportions of students in each grade matched national population proportions for U.S.
public and private schools derived from data from Market Data Retrieval Inc.
2021–2022 Common Core of Data and the National Center for Education Statistics 2019–2020 Private School Universe Study.
Population total estimates were rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
§ Products include e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus), hookahs, heated tobacco products, nicotine pouches, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), and other oral nicotine products (lozenges, discs, tablets, gums, dissolvable tobacco products, and other products).
In 2023, dissolvable tobacco products were reclassified from smokeless tobacco to other oral nicotine products.
¶ Small, flavored pouches contain nicotine that comes from tobacco.
Users place them in their mouth.
Nicotine pouches are different from other smokeless tobacco products such as snus, dip, or chewing tobacco, because they do not contain any tobacco leaf.
** Heated tobacco products heat processed tobacco leaf in the form of sticks (“heatsticks”), plugs, or capsules to produce a vapor that the user inhales.
They are different from e-cigarettes, which heat a liquid to produce a vapor.
†† Any tobacco product use was defined as use of one or more of the following tobacco products: e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, hookahs, heated tobacco products, nicotine pouches, pipe tobacco, bidis, or other oral nicotine products.
§§ Any combustible tobacco product use is defined as use of one or more of the following tobacco products: cigarettes, cigars, hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis.
¶¶ Multiple tobacco product use was defined as use of two or more of the following tobacco products: e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, hookahs, heated tobacco products, nicotine pouches, pipe tobacco, bidis, or other oral nicotine products.
*** Categories used are “disposables,” “prefilled or refillable pods or cartridges,” “tanks or mod system,” or “don’t know the type.” Disposable e-cigarettes come prefilled with e-liquid and are designed to be discarded once empty.
Some pods or cartridges come prefilled with e-liquid that is replaced after use, although others can be refilled by the user.
Tank or mod-type devices can also be refilled but are also usually customizable.
††† Brand response options included blu, Breeze, Elf Bar, Esco Bars, Fume, HQD, JUUL, Kangvape (including Onee Stick), Logic, Mr.
Fog, NJOY, SMOK (including NOVO), Suorin (including Air Bar), Vuse, “some other brand(s) not listed here” with space for a write-in name, and “not sure/I don’t know the brand.” Write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
§§§ Flavor type was determined by response to the question, “In the past 30 days when you used e-cigarettes, what flavors did you use?
(Select one or more).” Those who selected “some other flavor not listed here” could provide a write-in response; write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
¶¶¶ 45 C.F.R.
part 46.102(l)(2), 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
**** Estimates among non-Hispanic Asian and non-Hispanic Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander students were statistically unreliable for all current measures and are not reported.
†††† Current users were asked, “Did any of the flavors you used in the past 30 days have names or descriptions that included the word ‘ice’ or ‘iced’ (for example, blueberry ice or strawberry ice)?” Those who reported using only “unflavored” e-cigarettes (n = 60) or nicotine pouches (n = 11) were not asked the question.
§§§§ Current users were asked, “Did any of the flavors that you used in the past 30 days have a name that did not describe a specific flavor, such as ‘solar,’ ‘purple,’ ‘jazz,’ ‘island bash,’ ‘fusion,’ or some other word or phrase?” Those who reported using only “unflavored” e-cigarettes (n = 60) or nicotine pouches (n = 11) were not asked the question.
Top References US Department of Health and Human Services.
E-cigarette use among youth and young adults: a report of the Surgeon General.
Atlanta, Georgia: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2016.
 US Department of Health and Human Services.
2014 Surgeon General’s report: the health consequences of smoking—50 years of progress.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2014.
 Park-Lee E, Ren C, Cooper M, Cornelius M, Jamal A, Cullen KA.
Tobacco product use among middle and high school students—United States, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1429–35.
 PMID:36355596 Jamal A, Gentzke A, Hu SS, et al.
Tobacco use among middle and high school students—United States, 2011–2016.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:597–603.
 PMID:28617771 Owens DK, Davidson KW, Krist AH, et al.; US Preventive Services Task Force.
Primary care interventions for prevention and cessation of tobacco use in children and adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
JAMA 2020;323:1590–8.
 PMID:32343336 Diaz MC, Silver NA, Bertrand A, Schillo BA.
Bigger, stronger and cheaper: growth in e-cigarette market driven by disposable devices with more e-liquid, higher nicotine concentration and declining prices.
Tob Control 2023:tc-2023–058033.
 PMID:37536928 US Department of Health and Human Services.
Enforcement priorities for electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) and other deemed products on the market without premarket authorization (revised).
Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration; 2020.
  PMID:37347717 Boykan R, Messina CR, Chateau G, Eliscu A, Tolentino J, Goniewicz ML.
Self-reported use of tobacco, e-cigarettes, and marijuana versus urinary biomarkers.
Pediatrics 2019;143:e20183531.
 PMID:31010908 Top TABLE 1.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported ever using tobacco products,* by product, overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2023 Tobacco product % (95% CI) Total estimated weighted no.§ Sex Race and ethnicity† Total Female Male AI/AN, NH Asian, NH Black or African American, NH White, NH Hispanic or Latino Multiracial, NH Overall Any tobacco product¶ 23.7 (21.5–26.0) 20.8 (18.9–22.8) 22.7 (16.8–30.0) 12.1 (6.5–21.5) 20.1 (17.7–22.6) 23.1 (20.2–26.2) 23.8 (22.2–25.4) 27.9 (22.5–33.9) 22.2 (20.5–23.9) 6,210,000 E-cigarettes 19.4 (17.5–21.5) 14.7 (13.2–16.3) 15.4 (10.7–21.8) —** 12.9 (11.1–14.8) 18.4 (15.9–21.1) 18.2 (16.3–20.2) 20.8 (15.9–26.8) 17.0 (15.6–18.5) 4,750,000 Cigarettes 7.0 (6.0–8.1) 6.5 (5.4–7.7) 9.5 (5.6–15.5) — 4.1 (2.9–5.8) 7.5 (6.3–8.9) 7.4 (5.9–9.2) 8.7 (6.0–12.4) 6.7 (6.0–7.6) 1,840,000 Cigars†† 3.8 (2.9–4.8) 5.8 (4.8–7.0) — — 4.7 (3.4–6.4) 5.2 (4.1–6.6) 4.7 (4.0–5.5) 6.9 (4.8–9.8) 4.8 (4.0–5.6) 1,300,000 Hookahs 3.4 (2.4–4.8) 2.7 (1.9–3.8) — — 4.5 (2.7–7.2) 2.5 (1.7–3.5) 3.5 (2.7–4.5) 3.6 (2.4–5.2) 3.0 (2.4–3.9) 820,000 Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† 2.2 (1.7–2.9) 3.7 (2.8–4.8) — — 1.3 (0.8–2.1) 3.4 (2.5–4.6) 2.9 (2.2–3.8) 5.0 (3.3–7.5) 3.0 (2.4–3.6) 800,000 Other oral nicotine products†† 2.7 (2.1–3.4) 3.2 (2.6–4.1) 4.9 (2.8–8.5) — 1.7 (1.1–2.6) 3.2 (2.4–4.1) 3.5 (2.7–4.6) 4.2 (2.4–7.2) 3.0 (2.5–3.5) 800,000 Nicotine pouches 1.7 (1.2–2.4) 3.0 (2.2–4.1) — — — 3.0 (2.3–3.9) 2.0 (1.2–3.2) — 2.3 (1.8–3.0) 580,000 Pipe tobacco 1.5 (1.1–2.0) 1.9 (1.4–2.5) — — — 1.8 (1.3–2.5) 2.0 (1.5–2.7) 2.3 (1.3–3.9) 1.7 (1.4–2.0) 440,000 Heated tobacco products 1.5 (1.1–2.0) 1.5 (1.0–2.1) — — 1.7 (1.0–2.9) 1.4 (0.9–2.0) 1.8 (1.3–2.4) 1.6 (0.9–3.0) 1.5 (1.1–2.0) 370,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 10.9 (9.3–12.8) 11.6 (10.1–13.2) 11.1 (7.0–17.1) 4.4 (2.4–7.8) 11.2 (8.5–14.7) 11.6 (9.7–13.7) 12.0 (10.4–13.8) 14.4 (11.0–18.5) 11.2 (9.9–12.7) 3,090,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 10.1 (8.7–11.8) 9.6 (8.4–10.9) 11.0 (7.2–16.3) 3.6 (2.1–6.0) 7.3 (5.5–9.7) 10.8 (9.1–12.8) 10.3 (8.9–11.8) 13.3 (10.1–17.3) 9.8 (8.7–11.1) 2,750,000 High school students (grades 9–12) Any tobacco product¶ 30.1 (26.9–33.5) 25.9 (23.5–28.5) 29.0 (19.1–41.5) — 21.8 (18.8–25.2) 31.4 (28.0–34.9) 27.3 (24.8–29.8) 35.1 (27.3–43.7) 27.9 (25.8–30.2) 4,390,000 E-cigarettes 26.0 (23.2–29.0) 19.5 (17.6–21.5) 20.3 (12.5–31.2) — 14.7 (11.7–18.2) 26.0 (23.0–29.2) 22.3 (20.0–24.9) 27.5 (20.9–35.3) 22.6 (20.9–24.5) 3,550,000 Cigarettes 8.8 (7.3–10.6) 8.3 (7.0–9.7) — — 3.0 (1.8–5.0) 10.5 (9.0–12.1) 8.8 (6.9–11.1) 10.5 (6.8–15.7) 8.5 (7.7–9.5) 1,310,000 Cigars†† 4.8 (3.6–6.4) 7.9 (6.3–9.9) — — 4.8 (3.2–7.1) 7.8 (6.1–10.0) 5.4 (4.4–6.6) 9.6 (6.4–14.0) 6.4 (5.3–7.7) 980,000 Hookahs 4.0 (2.7–5.9) 3.5 (2.3–5.4) — — — 3.6 (2.5–5.3) 3.9 (2.7–5.5) 3.3 (1.9–5.8) 3.7 (2.8–5.1) 560,000 Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† 2.2 (1.5–3.2) 4.3 (3.3–5.7) — — — 3.8 (2.8–5.1) 2.9 (2.1–4.0) 6.9 (4.1–11.4) 3.3 (2.6–4.1) 500,000 Other oral nicotine products†† 2.8 (2.0–4.0) 4.0 (3.1–5.3) — — 1.6 (0.9–2.7) 4.1 (3.0–5.4) 3.8 (3.0–4.8) — 3.5 (2.8–4.2) 520,000 Nicotine pouches 2.0 (1.4–2.9) 4.1 (3.0–5.6) — — — 4.5 (3.5–5.7) 1.8 (1.1–2.8) — 3.1 (2.4–4.0) 430,000 Pipe tobacco 1.7 (1.2–2.5) 2.4 (1.8–3.2) — — — 2.7 (2.0–3.5) 2.2 (1.5–3.2) 3.3 (2.0–5.5) 2.1 (1.7–2.5) 310,000 Heated tobacco products 1.7 (1.2–2.5) 1.6 (1.0–2.4) — — — 1.8 (1.2–2.8) 1.5 (0.9–2.3) — 1.6 (1.2–2.3) 230,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 13.6 (11.3–16.2) 14.9 (13.0–16.9) — — 10.7 (8.2–14.0) 16.4 (14.1–19.1) 13.8 (11.7–16.3) 17.5 (12.6–23.7) 14.2 (12.6–16.1) 2,190,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 12.8 (10.5–15.4) 12.6 (11.1–14.2) 14.2 (8.0–24.0) 4.6 (2.5–8.3) 7.1 (4.9–10.1) 15.4 (13.1–18.1) 11.7 (10.0–13.6) 17.1 (12.2–23.3) 12.7 (11.1–14.4) 1,990,000 Middle school students (grades 6–8) Any tobacco product¶ 15.4 (12.9–18.3) 13.8 (11.3–16.6) 15.3 (9.7–23.2) — 17.8 (12.9–24.0) 12.3 (10.0–14.9) 18.7 (16.5–21.1) 17.6 (13.0–23.6) 14.7 (12.5–17.1) 1,780,000 E-cigarettes 11.0 (9.1–13.3) 8.2 (6.9–9.8) — — 10.6 (8.5–13.1) 8.4 (6.8–10.3) 12.3 (10.5–14.4) 11.3 (6.3–19.5) 9.7 (8.3–11.3) 1,170,000 Cigarettes 4.6 (3.6–5.9) 4.0 (2.7–5.9) — — 5.5 (3.9–7.8) 3.5 (2.5–5.1) 5.3 (3.8–7.2) — 4.3 (3.3–5.5) 510,000 Cigars†† 2.4 (1.6–3.6) 2.9 (2.0–4.2) — — 4.6 (2.8–7.4) 1.7 (1.1–2.6) 3.5 (2.3–5.3) — 2.6 (1.9–3.7) 310,000 Hookahs — 1.7 (1.2–2.3) — — — 0.9 (0.5–1.6) 2.9 (2.1–4.0) — 2.1 (1.4–3.2) 240,000 Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† 2.3 (1.6–3.1) 2.7 (1.8–4.0) — — — 2.9 (1.9–4.4) 2.5 (1.6–3.9) — 2.4 (1.8–3.3) 290,000 Other oral nicotine products†† 2.4 (1.8–3.2) 2.1 (1.6–2.7) — — — 2.0 (1.4–2.9) 2.9 (1.8–4.4) 2.9 (1.6–5.2) 2.2 (1.8–2.7) 260,000 Nicotine pouches — — — — — 1.0 (0.6–1.8) — — — — Pipe tobacco 1.1 (0.6–2.0) 1.1 (0.6–2.0) — — — — 1.7 (1.2–2.4) — 1.1 (0.7–1.6) 120,000 Heated tobacco products 1.2 (0.7–1.9) — — — — 0.8 (0.5–1.5) 2.1 (1.6–2.8) — 1.2 (0.8–1.8) 130,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 7.5 (5.7–10.0) 7.2 (5.1–9.9) 6.6 (3.6–11.7) — 11.9 (7.0–19.4) 5.3 (3.8–7.3) 9.3 (7.3–11.7) 9.8 (6.4–14.8) 7.3 (5.6–9.4) 870,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 6.7 (5.3–8.6) 5.5 (4.2–7.2) — — 7.6 (4.7–12.2) 4.7 (3.5–6.2) 8.0 (6.0–10.6) 7.9 (5.3–11.6) 6.1 (4.9–7.5) 740,000 Abbreviations: AI/AN = American Indian or Alaska Native; NH = non-Hispanic.
* Ever use is defined as ever having used the product, even once or twice.
Because of missing data on the ever use questions, denominators for each tobacco product might be different.
For each question, response options were “yes” or “no.” † Hispanic or Latino persons could be of any race.
Estimates among NH Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander students, overall and by school level, were statistically unreliable for all measures and are not presented in this table.
§ Estimated weighted total number of ever tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates were reported based on 22,069 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,879) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 11,067).
The sum of subgroup estimates might not sum to overall population estimates because of rounding or exclusion of students who did not report sex, race and ethnicity, or grade level.
¶ Any tobacco product use is defined as ever use of one or more of the following tobacco products: e-cigarettes, cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (composite), hookahs, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), or other oral nicotine products.
†† Cigars were defined as cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars.
Smokeless tobacco (composite) was defined as chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus.
Other oral nicotine products were defined as lozenges, discs, tablets, gums, dissolvable tobacco products, and other products.
In 2023, dissolvable tobacco products were reclassified from smokeless tobacco to other oral nicotine products.
§§ Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as ever use of one or more of the following tobacco products: cigarettes, cigars, hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis.
¶¶ Multiple tobacco product use was defined as ever use of two or more of the following tobacco products: e-cigarettes, cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (composite), hookahs, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, pipe tobacco, bidis, or other oral nicotine products.
Top TABLE 2.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) tobacco product use, by product,* overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2023 Tobacco product % (95% CI) Total estimated weighted no.§ Sex Race and ethnicity† Total Female Male AI/AN, NH Black or African American, NH White, NH Hispanic or Latino Multiracial, NH Overall Any tobacco product¶ 11.2 (9.5–13.1) 8.9 (7.7–10.3) 8.0 (4.7–13.2) 9.3 (7.5–11.3) 9.5 (7.7–11.6) 11.7 (10.1–13.4) 12.6 (8.8–17.7) 10.0 (8.9–11.2) 2,800,000 E-cigarettes 9.3 (8.1–10.8) 6.1 (5.0–7.4) 5.9 (3.4–10.0) 5.6 (4.5–7.1) 7.7 (6.3–9.4) 8.5 (7.4–9.8) 10.2 (6.8–15.1) 7.7 (6.8–8.6) 2,130,000 Cigarettes 1.4 (1.0–1.9) 1.8 (1.4–2.4) —** — 1.6 (1.1–2.3) 2.1 (1.5–3.1) 1.6 (1.0–2.8) 1.6 (1.2–2.1) 430,000 Cigars 1.3 (0.9–2.0) 1.8 (1.4–2.3) — 2.3 (1.4–3.8) 1.0 (0.7–1.4) 2.2 (1.7–2.8) — 1.6 (1.2–2.0) 420,000 Nicotine pouches 0.8 (0.5–1.3) 2.1 (1.5–3.0) — — 1.4 (0.9–2.2) 1.9 (1.1–3.3) — 1.5 (1.0–2.1) 400,000 Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† — 1.6 (1.1–2.3) — — 1.2 (0.7–1.8) 1.6 (1.1–2.4) — 1.2 (0.9–1.7) 330,000 Other oral nicotine products 1.1 (0.9–1.4) 1.2 (0.9–1.7) 0.5 (0.3–0.8) — 1.2 (0.9–1.5) 1.5 (1.1–2.0) — 1.2 (1.0–1.4) 310,000 Hookahs 1.3 (0.8–2.1) 0.9 (0.6–1.3) — — 0.7 (0.4–1.1) 1.3 (1.0–1.7) 1.3 (0.7–2.4) 1.1 (0.8–1.5) 290,000 Heated tobacco products 0.7 (0.5–1.0) 1.2 (0.8–1.9) — 1.0 (0.5–1.7) 0.7 (0.4–1.2) 1.5 (1.0–2.2) — 1.0 (0.7–1.3) 260,000 Pipe tobacco 0.5 (0.3–0.7) 0.6 (0.4–0.9) — — 0.5 (0.3–0.8) 0.9 (0.5–1.4) — 0.5 (0.4–0.7) 130,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 3.3 (2.6–4.1) 3.5 (2.9–4.2) 2.7 (1.5–4.9) 4.7 (3.1–7.0) 2.7 (2.2–3.5) 3.9 (3.1–4.8) 3.7 (2.4–5.5) 3.4 (2.9–4.0) 920,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 3.4 (2.7–4.2) 3.4 (2.7–4.2) 2.0 (1.1–3.5) 3.2 (1.8–5.5) 3.1 (2.4–4.0) 3.9 (3.4–4.5) 4.1 (2.6–6.5) 3.4 (2.9–3.9) 940,000 High school students (grades 9–12) Any tobacco product¶ 14.1 (11.6–17.0) 11.2 (9.4–13.1) — 9.8 (7.7–12.5) 13.6 (11.2–16.5) 12.4 (10.6–14.4) 17.2 (11.3–25.3) 12.6 (11.1–14.3) 1,970,000 E-cigarettes 12.2 (10.3–14.5) 8.0 (6.3–10.0) — 5.6 (4.2–7.4) 11.3 (9.2–13.7) 9.7 (8.0–11.8) 14.2 (9.0–21.8) 10.0 (8.8–11.4) 1,560,000 Cigarettes 1.5 (1.0–2.2) 2.3 (1.8–2.9) — — 2.2 (1.4–3.4) 2.2 (1.6–3.0) — 1.9 (1.5–2.4) 290,000 Cigars 1.4 (0.8–2.3) 2.3 (1.7–3.0) — 1.9 (1.2–3.0) 1.4 (0.9–2.2) 2.3 (1.6–3.3) — 1.8 (1.4–2.4) 280,000 Nicotine pouches — 2.6 (1.9–3.6) — — 2.2 (1.4–3.4) 1.6 (0.9–2.7) — 1.7 (1.2–2.5) 260,000 Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† — 2.1 (1.4–3.0) — — 1.7 (1.1–2.6) 1.7 (1.1–2.7) — 1.5 (1.1–2.2) 230,000 Other oral nicotine products 0.9 (0.7–1.3) 1.5 (1.0–2.2) — — 1.3 (1.0–1.8) 1.6 (1.1–2.2) — 1.2 (1.0–1.6) 180,000 Hookahs 1.4 (0.8–2.4) 0.9 (0.6–1.5) — — — 1.0 (0.6–1.6) — 1.1 (0.8–1.6) 170,000 Heated tobacco products 0.7 (0.4–1.2) 1.4 (0.8–2.5) — — — 1.6 (0.9–2.7) — 1.0 (0.7–1.6) 150,000 Pipe tobacco 0.5 (0.3–0.9) 0.7 (0.4–1.2) — — 0.6 (0.4–1.0) _ — 0.6 (0.4–0.9) 90,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 3.6 (2.7–4.7) 4.3 (3.6–5.2) — 4.5 (3.2–6.2) 3.8 (3.0–5.0) 3.8 (2.8–5.0) 5.3 (3.3–8.6) 3.9 (3.4–4.6) 600,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 3.5 (2.7–4.7) 4.3 (3.4–5.5) — — 4.3 (3.2–5.7) 3.9 (3.0–5.1) 6.1 (3.6–10.2) 3.9 (3.3–4.7) 610,000 Middle school students (grades 6–8) Any tobacco product¶ 7.5 (5.9–9.4) 5.7 (4.1–8.0) — 8.5 (5.8–12.4) 4.1 (3.2–5.2) 10.3 (7.5–14.0) 6.0 (3.4–10.5) 6.6 (5.1–8.5) 800,000 E-cigarettes 5.6 (4.5–7.1) 3.5 (2.5–4.8) — 5.7 (3.9–8.2) 3.1 (2.2–4.2) 6.6 (5.3–8.2) — 4.6 (3.6–5.8) 550,000 Cigarettes 1.1 (0.7–1.9) — — — 0.8 (0.4–1.4) — — 1.1 (0.6–1.9) 120,000 Cigars 1.2 (0.7–2.2) 1.0 (0.6–1.8) — — — 1.8 (1.1–3.1) — 1.1 (0.7–1.8) 130,000 Nicotine pouches — — — — 0.5 (0.3–0.8) — — — — Smokeless tobacco (composite)†† 0.6 (0.4–1.0) — — — — — — 0.7 (0.5–1.2) 80,000 Other oral nicotine products 1.3 (0.9–1.8) 0.8 (0.6–1.3) — — 1.0 (0.6–1.6) 1.3 (0.8–2.0) — 1.1 (0.8–1.4) 120,000 Hookahs — 0.8 (0.5–1.5) — — 0.4 (0.2–0.7) 1.8 (1.1–2.9) — 1.0 (0.6–1.8) 120,000 Heated tobacco products 0.8 (0.4–1.3) — — — — 1.3 (0.8–2.3) — 0.8 (0.5–1.4) 90,000 Pipe tobacco — — — — — — — 0.4 (0.2–0.6) 40,000 Any combustible tobacco product§§ 2.8 (1.8–4.4) 2.3 (1.4–3.6) — — 1.3 (0.9–1.9) 3.7 (2.4–5.6) — 2.5 (1.7–3.8) 300,000 Multiple tobacco products¶¶ 3.1 (2.2–4.4) 2.0 (1.3–3.0) — — 1.5 (1.0–2.2) 3.5 (2.5–4.9) — 2.5 (1.8–3.5) 300,000 Abbreviations: AI/AN = American Indian or Alaska Native; NH = non-Hispanic.
* Current use is defined as use on ≥1 days during the past 30 days for each product.
Because of missing data on past 30-day use questions, denominators for each tobacco product might be different.
† Hispanic or Latino persons could be of any race.
Estimates among NH Asian and NH Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander students, overall and by school level, were statistically unreliable for all measures and are not presented in this table.
§ Estimated weighted total number of current tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates were reported based on 22,069 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,879) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 11,067).
The sum of subgroup estimates might not sum to overall population estimates because of rounding or exclusion of students who did not report sex, race and ethnicity, or grade level.
¶ Any tobacco product use is defined as current use of one or more of the following tobacco products on ≥1 days during the past 30 days: e-cigarettes, cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (composite), hookahs, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), or other oral nicotine products.
†† Cigars were defined as cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars.
Smokeless tobacco (composite) was defined as chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus.
Other oral nicotine products were defined as lozenges, discs, tablets, gums, dissolvable tobacco products, and other products.
In 2023, dissolvable tobacco products were reclassified from smokeless tobacco to other oral nicotine products.
§§ Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as current use of one or more of the following tobacco products: cigarettes, cigars, hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis.
¶¶ Multiple tobacco product use was defined as current use of two or more of the following tobacco products: e-cigarettes, cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (composite), hookahs, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, pipe tobacco, bidis, or other oral nicotine products.
Top TABLE 3.
Percentage of middle and high school students reporting current (past 30-day) e-cigarette use,* overall by selected characteristics and school level — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2023 Characteristic Overall High school Middle school Estimated weighted no.† % (95% CI) Estimated weighted no.† % (95% CI) Estimated weighted no.† % (95% CI) Among all students 2,130,000 7.7 (6.8–8.6) 1,560,000 10.0 (8.8–11.4) 550,000 4.6 (3.6–5.8) Among current e-cigarette users Frequency of use during past 30 days 1–5 days 980,000 46.1 (39.8–52.7) 630,000 40.7 (33.1–48.7) 340,000 62.0 (55.7–67.9) 6–19 days 400,000 19.1 (15.0–24.1) 300,000 19.7 (14.1–26.8) 90,000 17.3 (12.2–24.0) 20–30 days 740,000 34.7 (28.4–41.7) 620,000 39.7 (31.3–48.6) 110,000 20.7 (14.6–28.6) Daily e-cigarette use§ 530,000 25.2 (19.2–32.3) 460,000 29.9 (22.1–39.1) 60,000 11.4 (7.5–17.0) Device type most often used¶ Disposables 1,240,000 60.7 (53.3–67.6) 1,000,000 65.2 (56.3–73.1) 240,000 47.9 (39.5–56.5) Prefilled or refillable pods or cartridges 330,000 16.1 (12.2–21.0) 240,000 16.0 (11.1–22.5) 80,000 16.7 (11.4–23.8) Tanks or mod system 120,000 5.9 (4.4–7.8) 90,000 6.0 (4.3–8.4) 20,000 4.4 (2.5–7.5) Don’t know the type 350,000 17.3 (12.7–23.1) 190,000 12.8 (8.7–18.4) 150,000 31.1 (22.2–41.5) Any brand** Elf Bar 1,160,000 56.7 (50.6–62.6) 900,000 59.1 (52.9–65.1) 260,000 50.0 (37.5–62.5) Esco Bars 440,000 21.6 (16.2–28.3) 370,000 24.9 (18.1–33.1) 60,000 12.0 (6.9–20.2) Vuse 420,000 20.7 (16.4–25.9) 330,000 22.2 (16.9–28.6) 80,000 16.3 (10.8–23.8) JUUL 330,000 16.5 (12.9–20.9) 240,000 16.3 (11.8–22.1) 80,000 16.8 (11.4–24.1) Mr.
Fog 280,000 13.6 (7.9–22.4) 230,000 15.1 (8.2–26.3) —†† — SMOK (including NOVO) 230,000 11.3 (6.3–19.5) — — 30,000 6.7 (3.9–11.1) Breeze 230,000 11.6 (7.6–17.4) 200,000 13.2 (8.0–21.2) 30,000 6.6 (4.1–10.5) Kangvape (including Onee Stick) 180,000 8.8 (6.6–11.7) 130,000 8.7 (6.5–11.6) — — Fume 180,000 9.0 (6.4–12.6) 140,000 9.2 (6.0–13.9) 40,000 8.2 (4.7–14.0) NJOY 150,000 7.5 (5.5–10.3) 120,000 8.1 (5.6–11.7) 20,000 5.4 (3.1–9.2) blu 120,000 6.0 (4.4–8.3) 70,000 5.2 (3.4–7.8) 40,000 8.1 (5.0–12.9) HQD 110,000 5.5 (3.4–8.5) 80,000 5.7 (3.3–9.7) — — Logic 80,000 3.9 (2.5–6.1) 50,000 3.7 (2.3–5.8) — — Suorin (including Air Bar) 70,000 3.8 (2.5–5.6) 50,000 3.8 (2.3–6.3) — — Lost Mary§§ 50,000 2.6 (1.4–4.8) 40,000 3.3 (1.8–5.9) — — Some other brand not listed 350,000 17.3 (11.6–24.9) 290,000 19.5 (12.4–29.2) 50,000 10.9 (6.0–19.0) Not sure or don’t know the brand 490,000 23.9 (19.3–29.2) 300,000 19.8 (15.6–24.9) 180,000 35.4 (24.3–48.3) Usual brand¶¶ Elf Bar 630,000 31.1 (26.2–36.4) 460,000 30.2 (24.8–36.2) 170,000 33.9 (24.6–44.7) Vuse 170,000 8.7 (5.8–12.9) 150,000 10.0 (6.4–15.3) — — Esco Bars 120,000 6.0 (3.4–10.4) 110,000 7.7 (4.3–13.5) — — JUUL 70,000 3.4 (1.9–6.1) — — — — Mr.
Fog — — — — — — SMOK (including NOVO) — — — — — — Breeze — — — — — — Kangvape (including Onee Stick) — — — — — — Fume — — — — — — NJOY — — — — — — blu — — — — — — HQD — — — — — — Logic — — — — — — Suorin (including Air Bar) — — — — — — Lost Mary — — — — — — No usual brand 90,000 4.4 (2.8–7.0) 70,000 4.7 (2.8–7.5) — — Some other brand not listed 270,000 13.2 (7.8–21.5) 230,000 15.4 (8.6–25.9) — — Not sure or don’t know the brand 400,000 19.8 (16.0–24.1) 240,000 16.0 (12.5–20.4) 150,000 30.5 (22.1–40.4) Flavored e-cigarette use*** Any flavor other than tobacco-flavored or unflavored 1,900,000 89.4 (86.2–91.9) 1,410,000 90.3 (86.6–93.1) 480,000 87.1 (79.9–92.0) Exclusive use of tobacco-flavored or unflavored 110,000 5.6 (3.9–7.9) 80,000 5.4 (3.4–8.4) 30,000 6.2 (3.4–11.0) Unspecified 100,000 5.0 (3.5–7.2) 60,000 4.3 (2.8–6.6) — — Flavor type used among current e-cigarette users††† Fruit 1,280,000 63.4 (59.8–66.9) 930,000 62.6 (57.9–67.0) 340,000 66.3 (59.5–72.5) Candy, desserts, or other sweets 700,000 35.0 (29.1–41.5) 510,000 34.4 (27.5–42.1) 190,000 37.0 (28.6–46.4) Mint 560,000 27.8 (22.0–34.4) 470,000 31.6 (24.2–40.1) 80,000 16.5 (11.6–22.9) Menthol 400,000 20.1 (15.5–25.8) 340,000 23.3 (17.6–30.1) 50,000 10.4 (7.2–14.8) Unflavored 230,000 11.6 (8.8–15.1) 160,000 10.9 (7.8–15.0) 60,000 13.2 (8.7–19.5) Non-alcoholic drinks§§§ 220,000 11.3 (6.4–19.1) — — 30,000 7.4 (4.1–13.0) Alcoholic drinks§§§ 170,000 8.4 (5.5–12.7) 130,000 9.0 (5.5–14.4) — — Tobacco-flavored 120,000 6.4 (4.5–9.0) 70,000 5.3 (3.7–7.4) — — Clove or spice §§§ 120,000 6.0 (4.3–8.2) 70,000 5.1 (3.3–7.7) 40,000 7.9 (4.6–13.1) Chocolate 90,000 4.9 (3.4–7.1) 50,000 3.4 (1.9–6.2) 40,000 8.0 (4.3–14.3) Some other flavor 120,000 6.0 (4.2–8.5) 60,000 4.6 (3.0–7.0) 50,000 10.0 (5.9–16.4) Use of any flavors that included the word “ice” or “iced” (such as “blueberry ice or strawberry ice”)¶¶¶ Yes 1,100,000 57.9 (52.5–63.1) 800,000 57.0 (51.3–62.6) 290,000 61.0 (52.8–68.5) No 560,000 29.5 (24.8–34.8) 440,000 31.6 (26.1–37.7) 110,000 24.1 (18.2–31.1) Don’t know 230,000 12.6 (9.8–16.0) 160,000 11.4 (8.3–15.5) 70,000 15.0 (10.2–21.5) Use of any concept flavors with a name that did not describe a specific flavor (such as “solar,” “purple,” “jazz,” “island bash,” or “fusion”)**** Yes 300,000 16.1 (13.5–19.0) 210,000 15.4 (12.2–19.3) 80,000 17.7 (12.3–24.7) No 1,110,000 58.5 (52.5–64.3) 850,000 60.9 (52.8–68.4) 250,000 52.8 (45.5–60.0) Don’t know 480,000 25.4 (21.6–29.7) 330,000 23.7 (19.0–29.2) 140,000 29.5 (22.6–37.5) * Current (past 30-day) use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?” Current use was defined as use on ≥1 days during the past 30 days.
† Estimated total number of users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
The sum of subgroup estimates might not sum to overall population estimates because of rounding or exclusion of students who did not report grade level (n = 102), device type (n = 53), any brand (n = 54), usual brand (n = 61), flavor types used (n = 84), use of flavor including the word “ice” or “iced” (n = 136), or use of flavors without specific flavor descriptor (n = 143).
§ Daily e-cigarette use was defined as use on all 30 of the past 30 days.
¶ Device type was determined by the question, “Which of the following best describes the type of e-cigarette you have used in the past 30 days?
If you have used more than one type, please think about the one you use most often.” ** All current e-cigarette users were asked, “During the past 30 days, what e-cigarette brands did you use?
(Select one or more).” Those who selected “some other brand(s) not listed here” could provide a write-in response.
Write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
§§ Lost Mary was not included in the list of prespecified response options, but it was the most commonly provided write-in response for “some other brand(s) not listed here.” ¶¶ If a single brand was selected for the question, “During the past 30 days, what e-cigarette brands did you use (Select one or more),” it was reported as the respondent’s usual brand.
Those who selected one or more brands were asked, “During the past 30 days, what brand of e-cigarettes did you usually use?
(Choose only one answer).” Those who selected “some other brand(s) not listed here” could provide a write-in response.
Write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
*** All current e-cigarette users were asked, “In the past 30 days when you used e-cigarettes, what flavors did you use?
(Select one or more)?” Those who provided no valid responses were defined as “Unspecified” flavored users.
††† Flavor type was determined by response to the question, “In the past 30 days when you used e-cigarettes, what flavors did you use?
(Select one or more).” Those who selected “some other flavor not listed here” could provide a write-in response; write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
§§§ These flavor options provided examples: “Alcoholic drinks (such as wine, margarita, or other cocktails)”; “Non-alcoholic drinks (such as coffee, soda, lemonade, or other beverage)”; “Spice (such as cinnamon, vanilla, or clove).” ¶¶¶ Current e-cigarette users were asked, “Did any of the flavors you used in the past 30 days have names or descriptions that included the word ‘ice’ or ‘iced’ (for example, blueberry ice or strawberry ice)?” Those who reported using only unflavored e-cigarettes (n = 60) did not receive the question.
**** Current e-cigarette users were asked, “Did any of the flavors that you used in the past 30 days have a name that did not describe a specific flavor, such as ‘solar,’ ‘purple,’ ‘jazz,’ ‘island bash,’ ‘fusion,’ or some other word or phrase?” Those who reported using only “unflavored” e-cigarettes (n = 60) did not receive the question.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Birdsey J, Cornelius M, Jamal A, et al.
Tobacco Product Use Among U.S.
Middle and High School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:1173–1182.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Tobacco Product Use and Associated Factors Among Middle and High School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Surveillance Summaries / March 11, 2022 / 71(5);1–29 Print Andrea S.
Gentzke, PhD1; Teresa W.
Wang, PhD1; Monica Cornelius, PhD1; Eunice Park-Lee, PhD2; Chunfeng Ren, PhD2; Michael D.
Sawdey, PhD2; Karen A.
Cullen, PhD2; Caitlin Loretan, MPH1; Ahmed Jamal, MBBS1; David M.
Most tobacco product use begins during adolescence.
In recent years, tobacco products have evolved to include various combusted, smokeless, and electronic products.
Period Covered: 2021.
Description of System: The National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) is an annual, cross-sectional, school-based, self-administered survey of U.S.
middle school (grades 6–8) and high school (grades 9–12) students.
A three-stage cluster sampling procedure is used to generate a nationally representative sample of U.S.
students attending public and private schools.
NYTS is the only nationally representative survey of U.S.
middle and high school students that focuses exclusively on tobacco use patterns and associated factors.
NYTS provides data to support the design, implementation, and evaluation of comprehensive youth tobacco use prevention and control programs and to guide tobacco regulatory activities.
Since 2019, NYTS has been administered electronically via tablet computers.
Because of emergency COVID-19 protocols that were in place across the United States during the 2021 NYTS fielding window (January 18–May 21, 2021), the 2021 survey was administered using a web URL to allow participation by eligible students learning under varying instructional models (in-person, distance/virtual, and hybrid).
In total, 50.8% of student respondents reported completing the survey in a school building or classroom and 49.2% at home or some other place.
CDC and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) analyzed data from the 2021 NYTS to assess tobacco product use patterns and associated factors among U.S.
middle and high school students.
Overall, 20,413 students (out of 25,149 sampled students; student response rate: 81.2%) completed the questionnaire from 279 schools (out of 508 sampled schools; school response rate: 54.9%).
The overall response rate, defined as the product of the student and school response rates, was 44.6%.
The sample was weighted to represent approximately 11.97 million middle school students and 15.44 million high school students.
Students with missing information about grade level were excluded from the school-level analyses (n = 135).
Current (past 30-day) use of a tobacco product was 13.4% for high school students (2.06 million) and 4.0% for middle school students (470,000).
E-cigarettes were the most commonly currently used tobacco product, cited by 11.3% of high school students (1.72 million) and 2.8% of middle school students (320,000), followed by cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, hookahs, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products, and pipe tobacco.
Current use of any tobacco product was reported by 14.2% of students identifying as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB) (versus 7.9% of heterosexual); 18.9% of students identifying as transgender (versus 8.2% of not transgender); and 14.2% of students reporting severe psychological distress (versus 5.5% with no distress).
Among students who currently used each respective tobacco product, frequent use (on ≥20 days of the past 30 days) ranged from 17.2% for nicotine pouches to 39.4% for e-cigarettes.
Among current users of any tobacco product, 79.1% reported using a flavored tobacco product; by product, e-cigarettes were the most commonly used flavored tobacco product.
Among current users of any tobacco product, the most commonly reported source of access was from a friend (32.8%).
Among students who currently used e-cigarettes, 53.7% used a disposable device, 28.7% used a prefilled/refillable pod or cartridge device, 9.0% used a tank or mod system (a system that can be customized by the user), and 8.6% did not know the device type.
Among students who had ever used e-cigarettes, the most common reason for first trying them was “a friend used them” (57.8%); among current e-cigarette users, the most commonly cited reason for current use was “I am feeling anxious, stressed, or depressed” (43.4%).
Among all middle and high school students, 75.2% reported past-year recognition of any antitobacco public education campaign ads.
Exposure to marketing or advertising for any tobacco product was reported by 75.7% of students who had contact with an assessed potential source of tobacco product advertisements or promotions (going to a convenience store, supermarket, or gas station; using the Internet; watching television or streaming services or going to the movies; or reading newspapers or magazines).
Among students who reported using social media, 73.5% had ever seen e-cigarette–related content.
Among all students, perceiving “no” or “little” harm from intermittent tobacco product use was highest for e-cigarettes (16.6%) and lowest for cigarettes (9.6%).
Among students who currently used any tobacco product, 27.2% had experienced cravings during the past 30 days; 19.5% reported wanting to use a tobacco product within 30 minutes of waking.
Moreover, 65.3% of students who currently used tobacco products were seriously thinking about quitting the use of all products, and 60.2% had stopped using all products for ≥1 day because they were trying to quit during the past 12 months.
Interpretation: In 2021, approximately one in 10 U.S.
middle and high school students (9.3%) had used a tobacco product during the preceding 30 days.
By school level, this represented more than one in eight high school students (13.4%) and approximately one in 25 middle school students (4.0%).
E-cigarettes were the most commonly used tobacco product in 2021.
Tobacco product use was higher among certain subpopulations, such as those identifying as LGB or transgender, or those reporting psychological distress.
Importantly, approximately two thirds of students who currently used tobacco products were seriously thinking about quitting.
However, factors that might continue to promote tobacco product use among U.S.
youths, such as the availability of flavors, access to tobacco products, exposure to tobacco product marketing, and misperceptions about harm from tobacco product use, remained prevalent in 2021.
Public Health Action: The continued monitoring of all forms of youth tobacco product use and associated factors through surveillance efforts including NYTS is important to the development of public health policy and action at national, state, and local levels.
The 2021 NYTS was successfully administered during the COVID-19 pandemic using a web URL to allow participation by eligible students learning under varying instructional models.
As a result of these modifications to the fielding procedures, any comparison of results between 2021 NYTS findings with previous years, including the direct attribution of any potential changes in tobacco product use, is not possible.
Parents, educators, youth advocates, and health care providers can help protect youths from the harms of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes.
In addition, the comprehensive and sustained implementation of evidence-based tobacco control strategies, combined with FDA’s regulation of tobacco products, is important for reducing all forms of tobacco product use among U.S.
Top Introduction Tobacco* product use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States (1).
Preventing tobacco product use among youths is critical to decreasing morbidity and mortality because almost all tobacco product use begins during adolescence or young adulthood; approximately nine in 10 adults who smoke cigarettes started before age 18 years (1–3).
In recent years, tobacco products have evolved to include various combusted, smokeless, and electronic products.
The National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS), conducted periodically during 1999–2009 and annually since 2011, provides national data on estimates of tobacco product use to support the design, implementation, and evaluation of comprehensive youth tobacco prevention and control programs and to inform tobacco regulatory activities in the United States (4).
NYTS is the only nationally representative survey of U.S.
middle (grades 6–8) and high school (grades 9–12) students that focuses exclusively on tobacco product use.
This report presents findings from the 2021 NYTS and describes the prevalence of youth tobacco product use and associated factors, including flavored tobacco product use, reasons for use, access to tobacco products, exposure to pro-tobacco and antitobacco product marketing, harm perceptions, urges to use tobacco products, and quitting behaviors.
These findings can be used by public health professionals, health care providers, policymakers, parents, and other youth advocates to prevent and reduce tobacco product use among U.S.
Top Methods NYTS Sampling Procedures NYTS is a cross-sectional, school-based, self-administered survey of U.S.
middle and high school students (4).
The 2021 NYTS sampling frame consisted of all regular public and private schools with students enrolled in grades 6–12 in the 50 U.S.
states and the District of Columbia.
The sampling frame comprised data obtained from Market Data Retrieval (5) and the National Center for Education Statistics (6,7).
Alternative schools, special education schools, U.S.
Across 16 previous cycles of NYTS, school participation had averaged 80.8% with a low of 49.9%.
Student participation had averaged 89.5% with a low of 85.9%.
Historical participation rates at both school and student levels guided the sampling design and projected sample sizes.
However, a more robust approach was used to calculate the projected sample sizes for the 2021 NYTS by assuming a more conservative overall response rate of 42.5%.
The overall number of schools included in the sample was increased to account for higher levels of anticipated school refusals attributable to COVID-19 precautions.
NYTS uses a stratified, three-stage cluster sample design (4).
All students in the selected classes were eligible to participate in the survey; students who were unable to complete the questionnaire without special assistance were excluded.
Data Collection and Processing Because of emergency COVID-19 protocols across the United States, the 2021 NYTS was conducted using an online survey to allow eligible students to participate while at school or at home during a designated class period as part of a class activity.† Participation in NYTS was voluntary at both the school and student levels; parental consent and student assent were required for NYTS participation.
Students logged into a secure website from a school-issued or personal Internet-connected device, watched an instructional video, and responded to a question regarding their current location (e.g., classroom, home, or other location) before completing the survey.
Data were transmitted directly to a secure server.
Data collection procedures were supported by trained, off-site technical assistance providers who maintained regular contact with selected schools and teachers before, during, and after data collection activities.
Students or whole classes that were unable to participate during the primary data collection period were asked to take the survey at the next possible opportunity.
The 2021 NYTS was reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget, the contracted data collectors’ institutional review board (IRB), and CDC’s IRB.§ The 2021 survey included 166 questions covering demographic information, tobacco product use behaviors, knowledge of and attitudes toward tobacco use, exposure to protobacco and antitobacco media and advertising, access to tobacco products, nicotine dependence, cessation attempts, exposure to secondhand smoke and e-cigarette aerosol, harm perceptions, exposure to tobacco product health warnings, and other tobacco-related topics.
At the beginning of each tobacco product section, a description of the product, including example brands and generic images, was provided.
Respondents did not answer all questions because of questionnaire skip patterns.
Respondents could skip any question or end the survey at any time.
Survey administration occurred during January 18, 2021–May 21, 2021.
The final sample consisted of 508 schools, of which 279 participated (school response rate: 54.9%); 20,413 student questionnaires were completed out of a sample of 25,149 students (student response rate: 81.2%).
Student response rates varied by school instructional model; student response rates were 85.8% among schools with in-person instruction (n = 69 participating schools), 77.9% in schools with exclusive distance learning or virtual instruction (n = 68 participating schools), and 81.4% for schools with hybrid instruction (n = 142 participating schools).
Hybrid student instructional models define instances in which some educational instruction happened in person and some happened virtually.
This included various scenarios, including all students alternating between in-person and virtual learning or a portion of students receiving in-person instruction at all times and the remaining students receiving virtual instruction at all times.
The overall response rate for the 2021 NYTS, defined as the product of the school-level and student-level response rates, was 44.6%.
After exclusion of outliers, the average survey completion time was approximately 22 minutes.
A weighting factor was applied to each student record to adjust for nonresponse and for varying probabilities of selection.
Weights were adjusted to ensure that the weighted proportions of students in each grade matched national population proportions.
Additional information on the NYTS sampling design, recruitment procedures, and data weighting is available (
Measures Ever and Current Tobacco Product Use Nine tobacco products were assessed: electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes), cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, and little cigars), smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, and dissolvable tobacco products), hookahs, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), heated tobacco products (HTPs), and nicotine pouches (pouches containing nicotine powder that comes from tobacco, which users place in their mouth).
For each product, ever use was defined as ever using the product, and current use was defined as use on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
Any tobacco product use was defined as use of one or more of the nine tobacco products.
Use of two or more tobacco products was defined as use of two or more of the nine tobacco products.
Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as use of one or more of the following: cigarettes, cigars, hookahs, pipe tobacco, and bidis.
Social Determinant Indicators Social determinant indicators included academic status in school (mostly As, Bs, Cs, Ds, or Fs), and speaking a language other than English at home (yes or no).
Additionally, a composite scale made up of four questions was used to assess psychological distress: “During the past two weeks, how often have you been bothered by any of the following problems?” 1) “little interest or pleasure in doing things”; 2) “feeling down, depressed, or hopeless”; 3) “feeling nervous, anxious, or on edge”; and 4) “not being able or stop or control worrying.” For each item, response options were numerically coded (not at all = 0; several days = 1; more than half of the days = 2; nearly every day = 3), summed (range: 0–12), and categorized as none (0–2), mild (3–5), moderate (6–8), or severe (9–12).
Furthermore, a composite scale made up of four questions was used to assess family affluence.
Responses were summed (range: 0–9) and categorized into approximate tertiles based on the weighted distribution of scores in this sample as low (0–5), medium (6–7), and high (8–9).
Response options were categorized as 1–5 days, 6–19 days, and 20–30 days.
Frequent use was defined as using a product on ≥20 days of the past 30 days.
(Select one or more).” Response options were “menthol,” “mint,” “clove or spice,” “fruit,” “chocolate,” “alcoholic drinks (such as wine, margarita, or other cocktails),” “candy, desserts, or other sweets,” and “some other flavor not listed here.” Those who selected “some other flavor not listed here” could provide a write-in response; write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
For cigarettes, current users were categorized as flavored (menthol) cigarette smokers if they responded “yes” to the question, “Menthol cigarettes are cigarettes that taste like mint.
During the past 30 days, were the cigarettes that you usually smoked menthol?” or if they indicated “Kool” or “Newport” as their usual cigarette brand during the past 30 days.
Usual cigarette brand was determined based on responses to two questions: “During the past 30 days, what brands of cigarettes did you smoke?
(Select one or more)” and “During the past 30 days, what brand of cigarettes did you usually smoke?
(Choose only one answer).” If “Kool” or “Newport” was the only brand selected for the first question, or if multiple brands were selected in the first question and “Kool” or “Newport” was selected for the second question, “Kool” or “Newport” was considered the respondent’s usual brand.
E-Cigarette Device Type Respondents who reported current use of e-cigarettes were asked, “Which of the following best describes the type of e-cigarette you have used in the past 30 days?
If you have used more than one type, please think about the one you use most often.” Response options were “A disposable e-cigarette (for example, Puff Bar or Stig),” “An e-cigarette that uses pre-filled or refillable pods or cartridges (for example, Juul, Smok, or Suorin),” “An e-cigarette with a tank that you refill with liquids (including mod systems that can be customized by the user),” and “I don’t know the type.” Reasons for E-Cigarette Use Respondents who had ever used e-cigarettes were asked, “Why did you first use an e-cigarette?” Respondents who reported current e-cigarette use were further asked, “Why do you currently use e-cigarettes?” For both questions, respondents could select one or more of 14 specified reasons.
Respondents who indicated, “I used/use them for some other reasons” to either question could specify a write-in response; analyses of write-in responses were not included in this report.
Respondents could specify a write-in response; analyses of write-in responses were not included in this report.
Recognition of Public Education Campaigns Against Tobacco Product Use All respondents were asked two questions regarding public education campaigns against tobacco product use: “In the past 12 months, have you seen or heard The Real Cost, on television, the Internet, social media, or radio as part of ads about tobacco?” (response options were yes, no, or not sure) and “In the past 12 months, have you seen or heard any other ads against tobacco with the following names or slogans on television, the Internet, social media, or on the radio?” Respondents could select one or more of “Truth,” “Tips or Tips from Former Smokers,” “Fresh Empire,” “This Free Life,” or “some other ad” or could select “I haven’t seen or heard any of these ads.” Those who indicated having seen “some other ad” could specify with a write-in response; analyses of write-in responses were not included in this report.
A composite of having recognized at least one ad against tobacco product use from a specified response option also was generated.
Exposure to Tobacco Product Marketing Exposure to tobacco product marketing (advertisements or promotions) was assessed separately for e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products for four sources: retail stores; Internet; television, streaming services, or movies; and newspapers or magazines.
E-Cigarette Content on Social Media All respondents were asked, “How often do you use social media?” Respondents who reported a response other than “never/I don’t use social media” were asked, “When you use social media, how often 1) “do you see posts or content (pictures, videos, or text) related to e-cigarettes?”; 2) “do you post pictures or videos of yourself or someone else using e-cigarettes?”; and 3) “have you liked, commented, or shared posts or content (pictures, videos, or text) related to e-cigarettes?” For each question, response options were “never,” “less than monthly,” “monthly,” “weekly,” or “daily.” Harm Perceptions The 2021 NYTS assessed harm perceptions for five tobacco products: e-cigarettes; cigarettes; cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars; smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco products); and hookahs.
All respondents were asked, “How much do you think people harm themselves when they (use e-cigarettes; smoke cigarettes; smoke cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars; use chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco products; or smoke tobacco in a hookah or water pipe) some days but not every day?” Response options were “no harm,” “little harm,” “some harm,” and “a lot of harm.” Dependence and Cessation Indicators Urges to Use Tobacco Products Students who currently used any tobacco product were asked, “During the past 30 days, have you had a strong craving or felt like you really needed to use a tobacco product of any kind?” (yes or no); and “How soon after you wake up do you want to use a tobacco product of any kind?” Response options were dichotomized as wanting to use a tobacco product within 30 minutes (“within 5 minutes” or “from 6 to 30 minutes,”) or not (“from more than 30 minutes to 1 hour,” “after more than 1 hour but less than 24 hours,” “I rarely want to use tobacco products,” or “I do not want to use tobacco products”).
Students who currently used any tobacco product were asked, “During the past 12 months, how many times have you stopped using all tobacco products for one day or longer because you were trying to quit all tobacco products for good?” Responses were dichotomized as making a past-year quit attempt (“1 time,” “2 times,” “3–5 times,” “6–9 times,” or “10 or more times”) or not making an attempt (“I did not try to quit all tobacco products during the past 12 months”).
Analyses Statistical analyses were conducted by using SAS-callable SUDAAN software (version 11.0.1; RTI International) to account for the complex sampling design.
Weighted prevalence estimates and 95% CIs were computed for all measures; when applicable, population totals were estimated from probability weights.
Comparisons of estimates from the 2021 NYTS with previous years were not possible because of the modifications to the fielding procedures in 2021 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The 20,413 student records were weighted to represent approximately 27.56 million students.
On the basis of self-reported grade level, this included 9,763 middle school students (11.97 million) and 10,515 high school students (15.44 million); 135 students with missing information on grade level were excluded from school-level analyses.
Overall, 50.8% of student respondents reported completing the survey in a school building or classroom and 49.2% at home or some other place.
Top Results Ever Tobacco Product Use In 2021, among U.S.
middle and high school students, 24.1% (6.6 million) reported ever use of a tobacco product (high school: 34.0%, 5.22 million; middle school: 11.3%, 1.34 million) (Table 1).
Among students who ever used a tobacco product, 49.4% (3.2 million) had ever used a combustible tobacco product and 41.5% (2.74 million) had ever used two or more tobacco product types.
E-cigarettes were the most commonly ever used tobacco product overall (19.4%; 5.3 million), followed by cigarettes (8.1%), cigars (5.2%), smokeless tobacco (3.6%), hookahs (2.8%), nicotine pouches (1.9%), HTPs (1.8%), and pipe tobacco (1.0%).
Ever use of any tobacco product was reported by 28.0% of middle and high school students who reported taking the survey in a school or classroom and 20.5% of middle and high school students who reported taking the survey at home or some other place (data not shown).
Current Tobacco Product Use Overall, among middle and high school students, 9.3% (2.55 million) reported current (past 30-day) use of any tobacco product (Table 2).
Among students who currently used any tobacco product, 34.4% (860,000) currently used any combustible tobacco product and 29.0% (740,000) currently used two or more tobacco product types.
E-cigarettes were the most commonly used tobacco product overall (7.6%; 2.06 million), followed by cigarettes (1.5%), cigars (1.4%), smokeless tobacco (0.9%), hookahs and nicotine pouches (both 0.8%), HTPs (0.7%), and pipe tobacco (0.3%).
Current use of any tobacco product was reported by 11.7% of middle and high school students who reported taking the survey in a school or classroom and 6.9% of middle and high school students who reported taking the survey at home or some other place.
Among high school students, 13.4% (2.06 million) reported current use of any tobacco product (Figure 1).
Among high school students who currently used tobacco products, 32.8% (660,000) currently used any combustible tobacco product and 28.4% (580,000) currently used two or more tobacco product types.
Among high school students, e-cigarettes were the most commonly used tobacco product (11.3%; 1.72 million), followed by cigars (2.1%), cigarettes (1.9%), hookahs and smokeless tobacco (both 1.2%), nicotine pouches (1.1%), HTPs (0.8%), and pipe tobacco (0.4%).
Among middle school students, 4.0% (470,000) reported current use of any tobacco product.
Among middle school students who currently used tobacco products, 40.0% (190,000) currently used any combustible tobacco product and 32.5% (150,000) currently used two or more tobacco product types.
Among middle school students, e-cigarettes were the most commonly used tobacco product (2.8%; 320,000), followed by cigarettes (1.0%), cigars and smokeless tobacco (both 0.6%), hookahs and HTPs (both 0.4%), nicotine pouches (0.3%), and pipe tobacco (0.2%).
Social Determinant Indicators Ever Tobacco Product Use By race and ethnicity, ever use of any tobacco product was reported by 26.7% of students who were non-Hispanic White, 22.4% of students who were Hispanic, 21.9% of students who were non-Hispanic Black, and 16.1% of students who were non-Hispanic other race (Table 1).
Ever use of any combustible tobacco product was reported by 14.0% of students who were non-Hispanic Black, 12.6% of students who were non-Hispanic White, 10.4% of students who were Hispanic, and 8.3% of students who were non-Hispanic other race.
Ever use of any tobacco product was reported by 35.4% of students identifying as LGB, 22.8% of those identifying as heterosexual, and 14.4% of those who were not sure (Table 3) and 37.9% of those identifying as transgender, 23.4% of those identifying as not transgender, and 26.4% of those who were not sure.
For psychological distress, prevalence of ever use of any tobacco product ranged from 16.6% (none) to 37.8% (severe) (Table 3).
Prevalence was similar for low (24.4%), medium (22.3%), and high (24.0%) family affluence.
Prevalence of ever use of any tobacco product increased as self-reported grades in school declined (mostly As: 18.3% to mostly Fs: 41.7%).
Ever use was 24.5% for students who spoke English at home and 20.5% for those who spoke another language at home.
Current Tobacco Product Use By race and ethnicity, current use of any tobacco product was reported by 11.0% of students who were non-Hispanic White, 8.2% of students who were non-Hispanic Black, 7.4% of students who were Hispanic, and 5.4% of students who were non-Hispanic other race (Table 2).
Current use of any combustible tobacco product was reported by 5.2% of students who were non-Hispanic Black, 3.1% of students who were non-Hispanic White, and 2.8% of students who were Hispanic.
Overall, current use of any tobacco product was reported by 14.2% of students identifying as LGB, 7.9% of those identifying as heterosexual, and 5.5% of those who were not sure (Table 3) and 18.9% of those identifying as transgender, 8.2% of those identifying as not transgender, and 9.1% of those who were not sure.
By psychological distress, prevalence of current use of any tobacco product ranged from 5.5% (none) to 14.2% (severe) (Table 3).
Current use was similar for low (9.2%), medium (7.7%), and high (8.8%) family affluence.
Prevalence of current use of any tobacco product increased with declining self-reported grades in school (mostly As: 5.5% to mostly Fs: 17.3%).
Current use of any tobacco product was 9.2% for students who spoke English in the home and 6.4% for those spoke another language at home.
Frequency of Tobacco Product Use Among students who currently used each tobacco product, frequent use (on ≥20 of the past 30 days) was 39.4% (810,000) for e-cigarettes, 29.5% (50,000) for chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip, 26.1% (20,000) for snus, 22.1% (30,000) for HTPs, 20.7% (80,000) for cigars, 19.9% (40,000) for hookahs, 18.9% (70,000) for cigarettes, and 17.2% (30,000) for nicotine pouches (Table 4).
For nearly all tobacco products, more than half of students who currently used the products reported using them on 1–5 days of the past 30 days.
Flavored Tobacco Product Use Among students who currently used any tobacco product, 79.1% (high school: 80.2%; middle school: 74.6%) reported using flavored tobacco product(s) in the past 30 days (Table 5).
Among students who currently used each tobacco product, use of a flavored product was 84.7% for e-cigarettes, 70.1% for smokeless tobacco, 61.6% for nicotine pouches, 46.6% for hookahs, 44.4% for cigars, 44.0% for HTPs, 38.8% for cigarettes (menthol only), and 34.4% for pipe tobacco.
Among students who currently used each flavored tobacco product, fruit was the most commonly reported flavor type for e-cigarettes (71.6%), hookahs (73.5%), cigars (65.0%), and HTPs (46.4%) (Figure 2) (Supplementary Table 1;  mint was the most commonly reported flavor type for smokeless tobacco (69.2%) and nicotine pouches (53.5%).
Menthol use was reported as 50.2% for nicotine pouches, 38.8% for cigarettes, 38.2% for smokeless tobacco, 28.8% for e-cigarettes, 26.5% for HTPs, 21.0% for cigars, and 17.0% for hookahs.
E-Cigarette Device Type Among students who currently used e-cigarettes, disposable e-cigarettes were the most commonly used device type (overall: 53.7%, 1.08 million; high school: 55.8%, 940,000; middle school: 43.8%, 130,000), followed by prefilled or refillable pods or cartridges (overall: 28.7%, 570,000; high school: 28.9%, 480,000; middle school: 27.8%, 80,000), and tanks or mod systems (overall: 9.0%, 180,000; high school: 7.5%, 120,000; middle school: 15.6%, 40,000) (Figure 3).
Estimates of e-cigarette device type by sex and race or ethnicity are provided (Supplementary Table 2; 
Reasons for E-Cigarette Use Among students who ever used e-cigarettes, the most common reasons for first use were “a friend used them” (57.8%), “I was curious about them” (47.6%), “I was feeling anxious, stressed, or depressed” (25.1%), and “to get a high or buzz from nicotine” (23.3%) (Table 6).
The most commonly reported reason for first use among high school students was “a friend used them” (60.6%) and was “I was curious about them” (49.4%) for middle school students.
Among students who currently used e-cigarettes, the most common reasons for current use were “I am feeling anxious, stressed, or depressed” (43.4%), “to get a high or buzz from nicotine” (42.8%), “a friend uses them” (28.3%), and “I can use them to do tricks” (20.0%) (Table 6).
The most commonly reported reason for current use was “to get a high or buzz from nicotine” (45.3%) among high school students and “I am feeling anxious, stressed, or depressed” (45.0%) among middle school students.
Access to Tobacco Products Among students who currently used any tobacco product, during the past 30 days, 32.8% got their products from a friend, 31.3% bought the products themselves, 28.8% had someone else buy the products for them, and 26.3% had someone offer the products to them (Table 7).
By purchase locations, 22.5% of students who currently used tobacco products reported purchasing from another person (friend, family member, or someone else), 20.2% from vape shops or tobacco shops, and 19.6% from gas stations or convenience stores; 48.6% of current tobacco product users did not purchase the products they used in the past 30 days.
Recognition of Public Education Campaigns Against Tobacco Product Use Among all students, 75.2% (high school: 79.4%; middle school: 69.8%) had seen or heard at least one public education campaign against tobacco product use within the past year (Table 8).
Recognition was 78.3% among males, 71.9% among females, and ranged from 67.6% among students who were non-Hispanic other race to 79.2% among students who were non-Hispanic White.
Recognition was 60.9% for “The Real Cost,” 39.7% for “Truth,” 19.8% for “Tips” or “Tips from Former Smokers,” 6.9% for “Fresh Empire,” 4.8% for “This Free Life,” and 11.7% for “some other ad.” Exposure to Tobacco Product Marketing Among students who reported contact with a potential source of tobacco product marketing, 75.7% (high school: 79.6%; middle school: 70.7%) reported exposure to any tobacco product marketing from one or more of these sources (Table 9).
The prevalence of exposure was 65.4% among students who reported going to retail stores, 43.9% among those who reported using the Internet, 34.0% among those who reported reading newspapers or magazines, and 30.3% among those who reported watching television or streaming services or going to the movies.
Overall, 70.3% of middle and high school students reported exposure to e-cigarette marketing specifically, whereas 59.1% reported exposure to cigarette or other tobacco product marketing.
E-Cigarette Content on Social Media In total, 91.5% (23.06 million) of U.S.
middle and high school students reported using social media.
Among all social media users, 73.5% (high school: 80.0%; middle school: 64.5%) reported ever seeing e-cigarette-related posts or content; 13.7% (high school: 16.3%; middle school: 10.1%) reported seeing e-cigarette–related content daily (Table 10).
An estimated 14.4% of social media users in middle and high school reported posting pictures or videos of e-cigarette use by themselves or others; 26.1% reported otherwise engaging (liking, commenting, or sharing) with e-cigarette–related content on social media.
Harm Perceptions Among all students, the percentage who reported that intermittent use of tobacco products causes a lot of harm was highest for smokeless tobacco (48.3%), followed by cigarettes (47.0%), hookahs (42.0%), e-cigarettes (41.8%), and cigars (41.5%) (Figure 4).
The percentage of students who reported that intermittent use causes no harm or little harm was highest for e-cigarettes (16.6%) and lowest for cigarettes (9.6%).
Estimates of harm perceptions for each tobacco product by school level are provided (Supplementary Table 3; 
Dependence and Cessation Indicators Among students who currently used any tobacco product, 27.2% (high school: 27.1%; middle school: 28.1%) reported experiencing cravings for tobacco product of any kind during the past 30 days (Table 11).
Overall, 19.5% (high school: 21.8%; middle school: 9.4%) of students who currently used any tobacco product reported wanting to use a tobacco product within 30 minutes of waking.
Among students who currently used any tobacco product, 65.3% (high school: 64.9%; middle school: 67.6%) reported that they were seriously thinking about quitting all tobacco products.
In addition, 60.2% (high school: 58.2%; middle school: 68.4%) of current tobacco product users overall reported that they stopped using all tobacco products for ≥1 day during the past 12 months because they were trying to quit.
Top Discussion Public Health Implications Findings from the 2021 NYTS indicate that approximately one in four students (24.1%), including approximately one in three high school students (34.0%) and one in nine middle school students (11.3%), had ever used a tobacco product.
Furthermore, approximately one in 10 students (9.3%), including more than one in eight high school students (13.4%) and one in 25 middle school students (4.0%), had used a tobacco product during the past 30 days.
Approximately three in 10 students (29.0%) who currently used any tobacco product reported using two or more tobacco products during the past 30 days; youths who use multiple tobacco products are at higher risk for developing nicotine dependence and might be more likely to continue using tobacco into adulthood (1,2).
Most youths who currently use tobacco products are not daily users (8–10).
However, even infrequent tobacco product use can lead to symptoms of nicotine dependence (11).
Additionally, in 2021, approximately four in 10 youths who currently used e-cigarettes, and more than 20% of youths who currently used cigars, chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip, snus, and HTPs, used them frequently (on ≥20 of the past 30 days).
Furthermore, for the first time in 2021, NYTS documented use of nicotine pouches among youths, an emerging tobacco product which contains nicotine powder that dissolves in the mouth without spitting.
Nicotine pouches do not contain any tobacco leaf, are available in various flavors, deliver high levels of nicotine by way of nicotine salts, and have had rapidly increasing sales in recent years (12).
Although youths’ use of nicotine pouches was low in 2021, these baseline data are needed for future monitoring to inform local, state, and federal public health policy and practice.
Youth use of tobacco products in any form is unsafe, regardless of whether the products are combustible, smokeless, or electronic (2,3).
Continued efforts are warranted to prevent and reduce all forms of tobacco product use among U.S.
This study highlighted disparities in tobacco product use among U.S.
Current use of any tobacco product, overall, was highest among students who were non-Hispanic White, followed by non-Hispanic Black, Hispanic, and students of non-Hispanic other race.
However, among all race and ethnicity groups, non-Hispanic Black students reported the highest prevalence of current combustible tobacco product use (5.2%), and specifically cigar use (3.1%).
While youth use of tobacco products in any form is unsafe (2), the toll of death and disease from tobacco product use in the United States is primarily caused by cigarettes and other combustible tobacco products (1).
In addition, use of any tobacco product was highest among students who identified their sexual identity as LGB than those who identified as heterosexual; among those identifying as transgender than those not transgender; and among those reporting increased symptom severity of psychological distress.
Furthermore, although peer use and curiosity were the most commonly cited reasons for initiating e-cigarette use among ever users in 2021, among youths who currently used e-cigarettes, the most commonly cited reasons for use were attributable to feelings of anxiety, stress, or depression and the “high or buzz” associated with nicotine use.
This is particularly concerning given the bidirectional association between nicotine use and mental health disorders such as depression and anxiety; studies found that youths with mental health disorders were at increased risk for cigarette smoking, but also that youth nicotine exposure was associated with the development of mental health disorders (3,13).
Additionally, nicotine withdrawal is commonly accompanied by symptoms of anxiety and depression, and relief of these symptoms through use of a nicotine-containing tobacco product or nicotine replacement therapy might perpetuate continued nicotine use (1).
Thus, the continued implementation of population-based strategies, coupled with tobacco product regulation by FDA, are critical to prevent and reduce the use of all forms of tobacco products among all youths (1–3,14).
Since 2014, e-cigarettes have been the most commonly used tobacco product among U.S.
youths (8,15–17).
In 2021, youth e-cigarette use remains a serious public health concern, as approximately one in nine high school students (11.3%, 1.72 million) and one in 35 middle school students (2.8%, 320,000) had used e-cigarettes during the past 30 days.
While this appears lower than previously reported estimates of e-cigarette use in 2020 (17), any comparison of results between survey years, including the direct attribution of any potential changes in tobacco product use, is not possible because of the modifications to the fielding procedures in 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Specifically, approximately half of students taking the 2021 NYTS reported doing so from outside of a school building or classroom; students participating in a school building or classroom reported a higher prevalence of ever and current use of any tobacco product, including e-cigarettes (18), compared with students participating at home or some other place.
However, declines in e-cigarette use during the COVID-19 pandemic compared with a prepandemic period have been observed in other studies of young persons (19,20).
Differences in tobacco product use by survey completion setting might be caused by potential underreporting of behaviors, reduced access to tobacco products while at home (19,20), or other unmeasured characteristics among students participating outside of the classroom.
Thus, the 2021 NYTS results cannot be compared with previous NYTS survey results that were primarily conducted on school campuses.
The 2021 NYTS offers insights into factors known to influence tobacco product use among youths.
Overall, approximately eight in 10 students who used a tobacco product reported using a flavored product, which can increase the appeal and ease of use for youths (2,3).
In addition, tobacco product marketing through traditional sources (i.e., media, Internet, print, and point of sale) and social media might prompt tobacco product initiation and use among youths (2,3,21,22); approximately 76% of students in 2021 reported exposure to tobacco product marketing through traditional sources and approximately 74% of students who used social media had seen e-cigarette–related posts or content.
However, these data indicate that approximately three in four U.S.
students had seen or heard at least one public education campaign against tobacco use during the preceding year, which can be an effective, evidence-based tool to educate youths about the risks of tobacco product use and to prevent initiation (2,23,24).
Thus, tailored interventions and services could support cessation behaviors among youths who currently use tobacco products.
Public Health Action Sustained implementation of population-based strategies, coupled with regulation of tobacco products by FDA, is critical to preventing and reducing all forms of tobacco product use among youths (1–3,14).
Strategies to reduce tobacco product use and initiation among all youths include increasing prices of tobacco products; establishing comprehensive clean indoor air policies that denormalize tobacco use and protect persons from exposure to secondhand smoke and e-cigarette aerosol; sustaining media campaigns that warn about the dangers of tobacco product use; reducing youth access to tobacco products, including enforcement of the federal Tobacco 21 policy¶; and restricting the sales of flavored e-cigarettes (1,14,16,25).
Everyone can help protect youths from the harms of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes (3,14).
Parents, educators, and youth advocates can learn about the different types of tobacco products available, including various e-cigarette devices that appeal to youths.
They can also set a positive example by being tobacco-free themselves and communicating the harms of tobacco product use for youths, including nicotine’s effects on adolescent brain development and addiction (3).
Schools can adopt and enforce tobacco-free campus policies that prohibit use of all tobacco products, including but not limited to e-cigarettes.
Also, schools can implement policies to not use tobacco industry–sponsored prevention programs; no tobacco industry–sponsored prevention programs that have been studied have been shown to be effective (2).
In addition, health care providers can ask about the use of all tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, when screening patients for tobacco product use and assist those who want to quit using tobacco products (26).
Top Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, because of the implementation of emergency COVID-19 protocols across the country during the 2021 NYTS fielding, the survey was administered online to allow participation by eligible students at home, school, or somewhere else.
Previous research has shown that the prevalence of tobacco use might differ by interview setting (27) and thus the 2021 NYTS results cannot be compared with previous NYTS survey results that were primarily conducted on school campuses.
Second, data were self-reported and might be subject to recall and response bias.
However, the validity of self-reported tobacco product use is consistently high in population-based studies overall (28).
Finally, data were collected only from middle and high school students who attended public or private schools; findings might not be generalizable to youths who are home schooled, have dropped out of school, are in detention centers, or are enrolled in alternative schools.
However, data from the Current Population Survey indicate that approximately 96% of U.S.
youths aged 10–17 years were enrolled in a traditional school in 2020 (29).
Top Conclusion NYTS is the only comprehensive, nationally representative cross-sectional survey of U.S.
middle and high school students focused exclusively on tobacco product use behaviors and associated factors.
The 2021 NYTS was fully conducted amid the global COVID-19 pandemic, during which time eligible students could participate in classrooms, at home, or some other place.
Findings from 2021 NYTS indicate that youth tobacco product use remains a public health threat, with approximately one in four students (24.1%) ever using a tobacco product, and approximately one in 10 students (9.3%) using a tobacco product during the past 30 days.
Furthermore, disparities in tobacco product use continue to exist among population subgroups.
In 2021, any tobacco product use was higher among students who identified as LGB than heterosexual; among students who identified as transgender than those not transgender; and among students who reported increased symptom severity of psychological distress.
Multiple factors continue to promote tobacco product use and initiation among youths, including flavors (such as menthol), marketing, and misperceptions of harm.
The comprehensive and sustained implementation of population-level evidence-based tobacco control strategies, combined with FDA’s regulation of tobacco products, is important for preventing and reducing all forms of tobacco product use among all U.S.
In addition, as the tobacco product marketplace continues to diversify, surveillance among youths for all forms of tobacco product use and associated factors is important to the development of public health policy and action at the national, state, and community levels.
Top Corresponding author: Andrea Gentzke, PhD, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC.
Telephone: 404-498-1795; E-mail: msv3@CDC.gov.
Top 1Office on Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC; 2Center for Tobacco Products, Food and Drug Administration Top Conflicts of Interest All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * The term “tobacco” as used in this report refers to commercial tobacco products and not to sacred and traditional use of tobacco by some American Indian communities.
† In 2019, NYTS transitioned from a paper and pencil questionnaire to an electronic survey.
The 2019 and 2020 NYTS were conducted offline using provided tablet computers in schools; data collection was supported by trained survey administrators (4).
This methodology was not feasible for the 2021 NYTS because of the implementation of emergency COVID-19 protocols across the country, including various school instructional models (in-person, distance/virtual, and hybrid), restricted visitor access at schools, travel restrictions, and other factors.
§ 45 C.F.R.
part 46; 21 C.F.R.
¶ On December 20, 2019, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act was amended to raise the federal minimum age of sale for tobacco products from 18 to 21 years.
Top References US Department of Health and Human Services.
The health consequences of smoking: 50 years of progress.
a report of the Surgeon General.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health.
 US Department of Health and Human Services.
Preventing tobacco use among youth and young adults: a report of the Surgeon General.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health; 2012.
 US Department of Health and Human Services.
E-cigarette use among youth and young adults: a report of the Surgeon General.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health; 2016.
 CDC.
National Youth Tobacco Survey.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2020.
 Market Data Retrieval.
National education database master extract.
Shelton, CT: Market Data Retrieval; 2019.
US Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics.
Common core of data: America’s public schools.
Washington, DC: US Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics.
 US Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics.
Private School Universe Survey (PSS).
Washington, DC: US Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics.
 Wang TW, Gentzke AS, Creamer MR, et al.
Tobacco product use and associated factors among middle and high school students—United States, 2019.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2019;68(No.
SS-12):1–22.
 PMID:31805035 Anic GM, Sawdey MD, Jamal A, Trivers KF.
Frequency of use among middle and high school student tobacco product users—United States, 2015–2017.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:1353–7.
 PMID:30543601 Creamer MR, Everett Jones S, Gentzke AS, Jamal A, King BA.
Tobacco product use among high school students—Youth Risk Behavior Survey, United States, 2019.
MMWR Suppl 2020;69:56–63.
 PMID:32817607 Apelberg BJ, Corey CG, Hoffman AC, et al.
Symptoms of tobacco dependence among middle and high school tobacco users: results from the 2012 National Youth Tobacco Survey.
Am J Prev Med 2014;47(Suppl 1):S4–14.
 PMID:25044195 Marynak KL, Wang X, Borowiecki M, et al.
Nicotine pouch unit sales in the US, 2016–2020.
JAMA 2021;326:566–8.
 PMID:34374729 Truth Initiative.
Colliding crises: youth mental health and nicotine use.
Washington, DC: Truth Initiative; 2021.
 US Department of Health and Human Services.
Surgeon General’s advisory on e-cigarette use among youth.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Surgeon General; 2018.
 Arrazola RA, Dube SR, King BA; CDC.
Tobacco product use among middle and high school students—United States, 2011 and 2012.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2013;62:893–7.
 PMID:24226625 Gentzke AS, Creamer M, Cullen KA, et al.
Vital signs: tobacco product use among middle and high school students—United States, 2011–2018.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2019;68:157–64.
 PMID:30763302 Gentzke AS, Wang TW, Jamal A, et al.
Tobacco product use among middle and high school students—United States, 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:1881–8.
 PMID:33332300 Park-Lee E, Ren C, Sawdey MD, et al.
Notes from the field: e-cigarette use among middle and high school students—National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2021;70:1387–9  PMID:34591834 Kreslake JM, Simard BJ, O’Connor KM, Patel M, Vallone DM, Hair EC.
E-cigarette use among youths and young adults during the COVID-19 pandemic: United States, 2020.
Am J Public Health 2021;111:1132–40.
 PMID:33856888 Gaiha SM, Lempert LK, Halpern-Felsher B.
Underage youth and young adult e-cigarette use and access before and during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic.
JAMA Netw Open 2020;3:e2027572.
 PMID:33270127 Singh T, Agaku IT, Arrazola RA, et al.
Exposure to advertisements and electronic cigarette use among US middle and high school students.
Pediatrics 2016;137:e20154155.
 PMID:27244815 Hébert ET, Case KR, Kelder SH, Delk J, Perry CL, Harrell MB.
Exposure and engagement with tobacco- and e-cigarette-related social media.
J Adolesc Health 2017;61:371–7.
 PMID:28669801 Noar SM, Rohde JA, Prentice-Dunn H, Kresovich A, Hall MG, Brewer NT.
Evaluating the actual and perceived effectiveness of e-cigarette prevention advertisements among adolescents.
Addict Behav 2020;109:106473.
 PMID:32521287 Allen JA, Duke JC, Davis KC, Kim AE, Nonnemaker JM, Farrelly MC.
Using mass media campaigns to reduce youth tobacco use: a review.
Am J Health Promot 2015;30:e71–82.
 PMID:25372236 CDC.
Best practices for comprehensive tobacco control programs—2014.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2014.
 US Preventive Services Task Force.
Prevention and cessation of tobacco use in children and adolescents: primary care interventions.
Rockville, MD: US Preventive Services Task Force; 2020.
 Brener ND, Billy JO, Grady WR.
Assessment of factors affecting the validity of self-reported health-risk behavior among adolescents: evidence from the scientific literature.
J Adolesc Health 2003;33:436–57.
 PMID:14642706 Boykan R, Messina CR, Chateau G, Eliscu A, Tolentino J, Goniewicz ML.
Self-reported use of tobacco, e-cigarettes, and marijuana versus urinary biomarkers.
Pediatrics 2019;143:e20183531.
 PMID:31010908 US Census Bureau.
School enrollment in the United States: October 2020—detailed tables.
Washington, DC: US Department of Commerce, Census Bureau; 2021.
 Top TABLE 1.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported ever using tobacco products, by product,* overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Sex Race and ethnicity Total Female Male White, non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic Hispanic† Other, non-Hispanic % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ Overall Any tobacco product¶ 24.5 (22.2–27.1) 23.8 (21.7–26.1) 26.7 (23.7–29.9) 21.9 (19.2–24.9) 22.4 (20.7–24.2) 16.1 (11.6–21.8) 24.1 (22.1–26.3) 6,600,000 E-cigarettes 20.1 (17.9–22.5) 18.8 (16.8–21.0) 23.1 (20.3–26.2) 12.6 (10.4–15.2) 17.6 (15.8–19.5) 12.7 (8.9–17.7) 19.4 (17.5–21.5) 5,300,000 Cigarettes 8.0 (6.9–9.1) 8.3 (7.3–9.4) 9.3 (8.1–10.8) 6.2 (4.8–8.0) 7.1 (6.0–8.4) 5.9 (3.5–10.0) 8.1 (7.2–9.1) 2,180,000 Cigars 3.7 (3.2–4.3) 6.6 (5.6–7.9) 5.9 (4.7–7.3) 6.8 (5.5–8.4) 4.1 (3.4–4.9) 1.9 (1.1–3.4) 5.2 (4.5–6.0) 1,400,000 Smokeless tobacco 2.2 (1.6–2.8) 5.0 (4.1–6.2) 4.8 (3.9–5.8) 1.8 (1.2–2.7) 2.3 (1.7–3.0) —** 3.6 (2.9–4.5) 960,000 Hookahs 3.1 (2.5–3.8) 2.5 (2.0–3.0) 2.1 (1.6–2.7) 5.0 (4.0–6.3) 3.2 (2.3–4.3) — 2.8 (2.3–3.3) 740,000 Nicotine pouches 1.2 (0.9–1.7) 2.6 (2.0–3.2) 2.6 (2.1–3.3) 0.7 (0.4–1.3) 1.3 (0.9–1.9) — 1.9 (1.5–2.4) 490,000 Heated tobacco products 1.8 (1.5–2.2) 1.7 (1.5–2.0) 1.7 (1.4–2.1) 1.7 (1.1–2.5) 2.1 (1.5–2.9) — 1.8 (1.5–2.0) 440,000 Pipe tobacco 0.9 (0.6–1.2) 1.2 (0.9–1.6) 1.3 (1.0–1.6) — 0.9 (0.7–1.3) — 1.0 (0.8–1.3) 270,000 Any combustible tobacco product†† 11.3 (10.1–12.5) 12.4 (11.1–13.8) 12.6 (10.9–14.4) 14.0 (11.8–16.4) 10.4 (9.3–11.6) 8.3 (5.5–12.4) 11.9 (10.8–13.0) 3,200,000 Two or more tobacco products§§ 9.1 (8.0–10.3) 10.9 (9.5–12.4) 11.8 (10.1–13.7) 8.5 (6.8–10.5) 8.5 (7.3–9.9) 6.3 (4.2–9.4) 10.0 (8.9–11.3) 2,740,000 High school (grades 9–12) Any tobacco product 35.2 (32.4–38.1) 33.0 (30.3–35.8) 37.8 (34.7–41.1) 27.7 (25.1–30.6) 29.7 (27.2–32.4) 27.9 (22.5–34.0) 34.0 (31.6–36.5) 5,220,000 E-cigarettes 30.2 (27.4–33.1) 27.7 (25.0–30.6) 33.8 (30.7–37.1) 16.9 (14.5–19.7) 25.0 (22.4–27.9) 23.0 (17.6–29.5) 28.9 (26.4–31.4) 4,430,000 Cigarettes 10.8 (9.3–12.5) 11.5 (9.9–13.3) 13.0 (11.3–14.9) 6.4 (4.7–8.5) 9.5 (7.6–11.9) 9.6 (5.6–15.8) 11.2 (9.9–12.6) 1,680,000 Cigars 4.9 (4.2–5.8) 10.0 (8.6–11.7) 8.7 (7.3–10.4) 8.7 (7.0–10.6) 5.4 (4.3–6.8) — 7.6 (6.6–8.8) 1,140,000 Smokeless tobacco 2.4 (1.8–3.3) 6.8 (5.5–8.4) 6.6 (5.4–7.9) 1.7 (1.0–2.9) 2.2 (1.5–3.2) — 4.7 (3.8–5.9) 700,000 Hookahs 4.2 (3.4–5.3) 3.5 (2.8–4.3) 2.9 (2.3–3.8) 6.8 (5.3–8.7) 4.0 (3.0–5.3) 5.1 (2.9–8.9) 3.8 (3.2–4.6) 570,000 Nicotine pouches 1.7 (1.3–2.4) 4.1 (3.3–5.1) 4.1 (3.3–5.1) — 1.5 (1.0–2.2) — 3.0 (2.4–3.6) 420,000 Heated tobacco products 2.5 (1.9–3.1) 2.1 (1.8–2.5) 2.3 (1.9–2.8) 2.1 (1.2–3.7) 2.4 (1.6–3.4) — 2.3 (2.0–2.6) 310,000 Pipe tobacco 1.1 (0.7–1.8) 1.7 (1.2–2.4) 1.8 (1.3–2.4) — 1.1 (0.7–1.8) — 1.4 (1.1–1.9) 210,000 Any combustible tobacco product 15.4 (13.6–17.2) 17.6 (15.9–19.5) 17.8 (15.9–19.8) 17.4 (15.0–20.1) 13.5 (11.3–16.2) 14.1 (9.8–19.9) 16.6 (15.1–18.1) 2,500,000 Two or more tobacco products 12.8 (11.4–14.4) 16.2 (14.3–18.4) 17.2 (15.2–19.4) 10.8 (8.8–13.4) 11.6 (9.5–14.1) 10.9 (7.6–15.5) 14.6 (13.1–16.3) 2,240,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) Any tobacco product 11.1 (9.3–13.2) 11.5 (9.9–13.4) 10.3 (8.7–12.1) 14.0 (10.9–17.8) 13.2 (10.5–16.5) 6.0 (3.7–9.6) 11.3 (9.8–13.0) 1,340,000 E-cigarettes 7.5 (6.2–9.1) 7.0 (5.8–8.5) 7.5 (6.3–9.0) 7.0 (4.9–9.8) 8.4 (6.5–10.8) 3.8 (2.2–6.6) 7.3 (6.2–8.6) 860,000 Cigarettes 4.2 (3.2–5.6) 3.9 (3.1–5.0) 3.8 (2.9–5.1) 5.7 (3.8–8.4) 4.1 (2.8–5.8) — 4.1 (3.2–5.1) 480,000 Cigars 2.0 (1.5–2.7) 2.2 (1.7–2.7) 1.7 (1.2–2.3) 4.3 (3.2–5.8) 2.5 (1.6–3.8) — 2.1 (1.7–2.6) 240,000 Smokeless tobacco 1.8 (1.2–2.6) 2.5 (1.8–3.6) 2.1 (1.5–2.8) 1.9 (1.1–3.3) 2.3 (1.5–3.5) — 2.2 (1.6–3.0) 250,000 Hookahs 1.5 (1.0–2.3) 1.1 (0.7–1.5) 0.6 (0.4–1.0) 2.7 (1.8–3.9) 2.1 (1.2–3.7) — 1.3 (0.9–1.8) 150,000 Nicotine pouches 0.6 (0.3–1.1) 0.5 (0.3–0.8) 0.4 (0.3–0.7) — — — 0.6 (0.4–0.8) 60,000 Heated tobacco products 1.0 (0.7–1.4) 1.2 (0.9–1.8) 0.8 (0.5–1.3) — 1.7 (1.0–3.0) — 1.1 (0.9–1.5) 120,000 Pipe tobacco — 0.5 (0.3–0.8) 0.4 (0.2–0.6) — 0.7 (0.4–1.2) — 0.5 (0.3–0.7) 50,000 Any combustible tobacco product 6.0 (4.9–7.4) 5.4 (4.5–6.5) 4.7 (3.8–5.9) 9.2 (6.7–12.5) 6.5 (5.0–8.6) — 5.7 (4.8–6.8) 670,000 Two or more tobacco products 4.3 (3.3–5.7) 3.7 (2.8–4.9) 3.6 (2.7–4.9) 5.4 (3.6–8.1) 4.7 (3.4–6.5) — 4.0 (3.2–5.1) 480,000 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* Ever use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “Have you ever used an e-cigarette, even once or twice?” Ever use of cigarettes was determined by asking, “Have you ever smoked a cigarette, even one or two puffs?” Ever use of cigars was determined by asking, “Have you ever smoked a cigar, cigarillo, or little cigar, even one or two puffs?” Smokeless tobacco was defined as use of chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco products.
Ever use of smokeless tobacco was determined by asking the following questions: for chewing tobacco, snuff, and dip: “Have you ever used chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip, even just a small amount?”; for snus: “Have you ever used snus, even just one time?”; and for dissolvable tobacco products: “Have you ever used dissolvable tobacco products, even just one time?” Responses from these questions were combined to derive overall smokeless tobacco use.
Ever use of hookahs was determined by asking, “Have you ever smoked tobacco in a hookah or water pipe, even one or two puffs?” Ever use of nicotine pouches was determined by asking, “Have you ever used a “nicotine pouch,” even just one time?” Ever use of heated tobacco products was determined by asking, “Have you ever used a heated tobacco product, even just one time?” Ever use of pipe tobacco (not hookahs) was determined by asking, “Have you ever smoked pipes filled with tobacco (not hookah or water pipe), even just one time?” Because of missing data on the ever use questions, denominators for each tobacco product might be different.
For each question, response options were “yes” or “no.” † Hispanic persons could be of any race.
§ Estimated weighted total number of ever tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates were reported among 20,413 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by self-reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,515) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 9,763).
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report sex, race and ethnicity, or grade level.
†† Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as ever use of cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis, even just one time.
Top TABLE 2.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) tobacco product use, by product,* overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Sex Race and ethnicity Total Female Male White, non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic Hispanic† Other, non-Hispanic % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ Overall Any tobacco product¶ 9.6 (8.4–11.0) 9.0 (7.9–10.3) 11.0 (9.5–12.8) 8.2 (6.5–10.2) 7.4 (6.4–8.7) 5.4 (3.6–8.1) 9.3 (8.3–10.5) 2,550,000 E-cigarettes 8.0 (6.8–9.4) 7.1 (6.1–8.3) 9.6 (8.2–11.4) 4.3 (3.1–6.0) 6.0 (4.9–7.2) 4.1 (2.7–6.2) 7.6 (6.6–8.7) 2,060,000 Cigarettes 1.5 (1.2–1.9) 1.5 (1.2–2.0) 1.8 (1.4–2.2) 1.0 (0.6–1.6) 1.5 (1.1–2.0) —** 1.5 (1.3–1.8) 410,000 Cigars 1.1 (0.8–1.4) 1.8 (1.5–2.1) 1.4 (1.1–1.8) 3.1 (2.4–4.1) 0.9 (0.7–1.2) — 1.4 (1.2–1.7) 380,000 Smokeless tobacco 0.5 (0.3–0.7) 1.3 (1.0–1.8) 1.1 (0.8–1.5) — 0.7 (0.5–1.0) — 0.9 (0.7–1.2) 240,000 Hookahs 0.9 (0.6–1.4) 0.8 (0.6–1.0) 0.5 (0.4–0.7) 2.2 (1.4–3.4) 1.0 (0.6–1.5) — 0.8 (0.7–1.1) 220,000 Nicotine pouches 0.5 (0.3–0.7) 1.0 (0.7–1.4) 0.9 (0.6–1.3) — 0.7 (0.4–1.0) — 0.8 (0.6–1.0) 200,000 Heated tobacco products 0.6 (0.4–0.8) 0.7 (0.5–1.0) 0.6 (0.5–0.9) 0.7 (0.4–1.3) 0.7 (0.4–1.1) — 0.7 (0.5–0.8) 170,000 Pipe tobacco 0.3 (0.2–0.5) 0.3 (0.2–0.6) 0.4 (0.2–0.6) — 0.3 (0.2–0.6) — 0.3 (0.2–0.5) 80,000 Any combustible tobacco product†† 3.1 (2.6–3.8) 3.2 (2.8–3.7) 3.1 (2.6–3.7) 5.2 (4.1–6.6) 2.8 (2.3–3.4) — 3.2 (2.8–3.6) 860,000 Two or more tobacco products§§ 2.4 (1.9–2.9) 3.0 (2.5–3.7) 3.1 (2.6–3.8) 3.0 (2.2–4.0) 2.2 (1.7–2.9) — 2.7 (2.3–3.2) 740,000 High school (grades 9–12) Any tobacco product 13.8 (11.9–16.0) 13.0 (11.2–15.1) 16.2 (14.1–18.6) 11.0 (8.7–13.9) 9.1 (7.4–11.1) 9.3 (6.3–13.6) 13.4 (11.8–15.2) 2,060,000 E-cigarettes 11.9 (10.0–14.0) 10.7 (9.1–12.6) 14.5 (12.4–16.8) 5.9 (4.2–8.2) 7.6 (6.0–9.6) 7.4 (4.9–10.9) 11.3 (9.7–13.0) 1,720,000 Cigarettes 1.8 (1.3–2.3) 2.0 (1.5–2.7) 2.2 (1.8–2.8) — 1.6 (1.2–2.3) — 1.9 (1.5–2.4) 280,000 Cigars 1.5 (1.1–2.1) 2.6 (2.1–3.3) 2.1 (1.6–2.6) 4.4 (3.3–5.9) 1.2 (0.8–1.6) — 2.1 (1.7–2.6) 310,000 Smokeless tobacco — 1.7 (1.2–2.4) 1.5 (1.0–2.1) — — — 1.2 (0.8–1.6) 170,000 Hookahs 1.3 (0.8–2.0) 1.2 (0.9–1.5) 0.8 (0.5–1.1) 3.2 (1.9–5.2) 1.3 (0.8–2.3) — 1.2 (0.9–1.6) 180,000 Nicotine pouches 0.6 (0.3–1.0) 1.6 (1.1–2.3) 1.4 (0.9–2.2) — — — 1.1 (0.8–1.6) 160,000 Heated tobacco products 0.7 (0.5–1.2) 0.9 (0.6–1.4) 0.9 (0.6–1.3) — — — 0.8 (0.6–1.1) 120,000 Pipe tobacco — — 0.5 (0.3–0.9) — — — 0.4 (0.3–0.7) 60,000 Any combustible tobacco product 4.2 (3.3–5.2) 4.6 (3.8–5.4) 4.3 (3.5–5.1) 7.3 (5.5–9.6) 3.5 (2.7–4.5) — 4.4 (3.8–5.1) 660,000 Two or more tobacco products 3.1 (2.4–4.0) 4.5 (3.6–5.6) 4.4 (3.7–5.4) 4.0 (2.8–5.7) 2.6 (2.0–3.5) — 3.8 (3.2–4.6) 580,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) Any tobacco product 4.4 (3.5–5.5) 3.6 (2.9–4.5) 3.4 (2.7–4.4) 4.5 (3.4–5.9) 5.3 (3.9–7.1) 2.2 (1.2–3.8) 4.0 (3.3–4.8) 470,000 E-cigarettes 3.2 (2.4–4.2) 2.3 (1.9–3.0) 2.6 (1.9–3.5) 2.3 (1.4–4.0) 3.9 (2.9–5.3) — 2.8 (2.2–3.4) 320,000 Cigarettes 1.2 (0.8–1.8) 0.9 (0.6–1.4) 1.0 (0.7–1.5) 1.1 (0.6–1.9) 1.2 (0.7–1.9) — 1.0 (0.8–1.4) 120,000 Cigars 0.5 (0.3–0.9) 0.6 (0.4–0.9) 0.5 (0.3–0.7) 1.4 (0.8–2.3) 0.6 (0.4–1.1) — 0.6 (0.4–0.8) 60,000 Smokeless tobacco — 0.8 (0.5–1.2) 0.5 (0.3–0.9) — — — 0.6 (0.4–0.9) 60,000 Hookahs — — — — — — 0.4 (0.2–0.6) 40,000 Nicotine pouches — 0.2 (0.1–0.3) — — — — 0.3 (0.2–0.5) 30,000 Heated tobacco products 0.4 (0.2–0.7) 0.4 (0.3–0.7) — — — — 0.4 (0.3–0.6) 40,000 Pipe tobacco — — — — — — 0.2 (0.1–0.3) 20,000 Any combustible tobacco product 1.9 (1.3–2.7) 1.4 (1.0–1.9) 1.4 (1.0–1.9) 2.4 (1.7–3.3) 1.9 (1.3–2.8) — 1.6 (1.3–2.1) 190,000 Two or more tobacco products 1.5 (0.9–2.3) 1.1 (0.8–1.5) 1.2 (0.8–1.8) 1.6 (1.0–2.5) 1.6 (1.0–2.7) — 1.3 (0.9–1.7) 150,000 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* Past 30-day use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigars was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars?” Smokeless tobacco was defined as use of chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco products.
Past 30-day use of hookahs was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke tobacco in a hookah or water pipe?” Past 30-day use of nicotine pouches was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use nicotine pouches?” Past 30-day use of heated tobacco products was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use heated tobacco products?” Past 30-day use of pipe tobacco (not hookahs) was determined by asking, “In the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke pipes filled with tobacco?” Because of missing data on the past 30-day use questions, denominators for each tobacco product might be different.
For each product, current use was defined as self-reported use on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
† Hispanic persons could be of any race.
§ Estimated weighted total number of current tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates were reported among 20,413 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by self-reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,515) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 9,763).
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report sex, race and ethnicity, or grade level.
†† Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as use of cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
Top FIGURE 1.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) use of select tobacco products,* any tobacco product,† any combustible tobacco product,§ or two or more tobacco product types,¶ by school level** and overall — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* Past 30-day use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigars was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars?” Smokeless tobacco was defined as use of chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco products.
Past 30-day use of hookahs was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke tobacco in a hookah or water pipe?” Past 30-day use of nicotine pouches was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use nicotine pouches?” Past 30-day use of heated tobacco products was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use heated tobacco products?” Past 30-day use of pipe tobacco (not hookahs) was determined by asking, “In the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke pipes filled with tobacco?” Because of missing data on the past 30-day use questions, denominators for each tobacco product might be different.
For each product, current use was defined as self-reported use on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
§ Any combustible tobacco product use was defined as use of cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), hookahs, pipe tobacco, or bidis on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
** Overall estimates were reported among 20,413 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by self-reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,515) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 9,763).
Top TABLE 3.
Percentage of middle and high school students who reported ever use or current (past 30-day) use of any tobacco product,* overall and by selected demographic characteristics and social determinant indicators — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Ever use, any tobacco product Current use, any tobacco product % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users† % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users† Overall§ Sexual identity Heterosexual 22.8 (20.7–25.0) 4,210,000 7.9 (7.0–9.0) 1,460,000 Gay, lesbian, or bisexual 35.4 (32.4–38.4) 1,220,000 14.2 (11.9–17.0) 490,000 Not sure 14.4 (11.8–17.5) 340,000 5.5 (4.2–7.3) 130,000 Transgender No, not transgender 23.4 (21.3–25.7) 5,210,000 8.2 (7.3–9.3) 1,830,000 Yes, transgender 37.9 (31.3–45.0) 160,000 18.9 (13.8–25.4) 80,000 Not sure 26.4 (20.7–33.1) 180,000 9.1 (6.1–13.5) 60,000 I don’t know what this question is asking 18.4 (14.7–22.8) 180,000 9.7 (6.9–13.4) 90,000 Psychological distress (PHQ-4 scale)¶ None 16.6 (14.7–18.8) 2,070,000 5.5 (4.7–6.3) 680,000 Mild 27.3 (25.0–29.7) 1,340,000 9.6 (8.3–11.1) 470,000 Moderate 29.3 (25.7–33.2) 910,000 11.2 (8.8–14.1) 340,000 Severe 37.8 (33.9–41.8) 1,110,000 14.2 (11.9–16.8) 410,000 Family affluence scale** Low 24.4 (22.4–26.6) 1,490,000 9.2 (7.8–10.8) 560,000 Medium 22.3 (20.2–24.6) 2,400,000 7.7 (6.7–8.8) 820,000 High 24.0 (20.9–27.5) 1,760,000 8.8 (7.5–10.3) 640,000 Grades in school Mostly As 18.3 (15.9–21.0) 1,980,000 5.5 (4.6–6.7) 590,000 Mostly Bs 25.7 (23.3–28.3) 1,770,000 9.6 (8.2–11.1) 650,000 Mostly Cs 31.3 (28.3–34.4) 910,000 13.2 (11.0–15.8) 380,000 Mostly Ds 36.7 (32.1–41.6) 360,000 15.6 (12.6–19.2) 150,000 Mostly Fs 41.7 (36.8–46.8) 350,000 17.3 (13.4–22.0) 140,000 Speak language other than English (home) Yes 20.5 (18.4–22.8) 1,440,000 6.4 (5.5–7.3) 440,000 No 24.5 (22.1–27.1) 4,310,000 9.2 (8.1–10.5) 1,620,000 High school (grades 9–12) Sexual identity Heterosexual 31.6 (29.2–34.1) 3,420,000 11.4 (10.1–12.9) 1,230,000 Gay, lesbian, or bisexual 43.8 (40.1–47.6) 910,000 17.4 (14.2–21.1) 360,000 Not sure 26.8 (22.5–31.7) 240,000 10.2 (7.3–13.9) 90,000 Transgender No, not transgender 32.7 (30.3–35.2) 4,190,000 11.7 (10.3–13.2) 1,490,000 Yes, transgender 45.6 (36.7–54.8) 110,000 24.5 (17.2–33.6) 60,000 Not sure 38.4 (29.3–48.3) 120,000 12.3 (6.8–21.4) 30,000 I don’t know what this question is asking 30.9 (24.0–38.9) 140,000 17.9 (12.1–25.5) 80,000 Psychological distress (PHQ-4 scale) None 25.4 (22.9–28.0) 1,680,000 8.3 (7.2–9.6) 550,000 Mild 37.1 (33.9–40.3) 1,100,000 13.6 (11.5–16.0) 400,000 Moderate 37.5 (32.6–42.6) 710,000 15.2 (11.7–19.5) 290,000 Severe 46.5 (42.5–50.5) 840,000 17.6 (14.5–21.2) 310,000 Family affluence scale Low 33.2 (30.5–36.0) 1,170,000 12.7 (10.4–15.4) 440,000 Medium 31.4 (28.5–34.5) 1,930,000 11.2 (9.6–13.0) 680,000 High 34.9 (31.7–38.3) 1,400,000 12.8 (11.0–14.9) 510,000 Grades in school Mostly As 27.8 (24.6–31.2) 1,680,000 8.5 (7.1–10.2) 510,000 Mostly Bs 35.4 (32.6–38.2) 1,420,000 13.7 (11.8–15.8) 550,000 Mostly Cs 40.7 (36.8–44.7) 710,000 17.9 (14.8–21.5) 310,000 Mostly Ds 42.6 (35.2–50.4) 250,000 18.4 (13.1–25.2) 100,000 Mostly Fs 48.3 (41.8–54.9) 260,000 19.6 (14.4–26.0) 100,000 Speak language other than English (home) Yes 28.5 (25.7–31.4) 1,070,000 8.4 (6.7–10.4) 310,000 No 34.5 (32.0–37.1) 3,480,000 13.5 (11.9–15.2) 1,350,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) Sexual identity Heterosexual 10.0 (8.7–11.6) 760,000 3.0 (2.4–3.6) 220,000 Gay, lesbian, or bisexual 22.5 (18.8–26.6) 300,000 9.5 (7.1–12.5) 120,000 Not sure 6.8 (4.6–9.9) 100,000 2.6 (1.6–4.0) 30,000 Transgender No, not transgender 10.6 (9.2–12.2) 990,000 3.5 (2.9–4.3) 330,000 Yes, transgender 27.8 (19.0–38.7) 50,000 —†† — Not sure 16.7 (11.6–23.4) 60,000 6.5 (3.7–11.0) 20,000 I don’t know what this question is asking 7.4 (5.0–10.9) 40,000 2.3 (1.4–3.9) 10,000 Psychological distress (PHQ-4 scale) None 6.3 (5.3–7.5) 360,000 2.1 (1.6–2.7) 120,000 Mild 12.2 (10.0–14.8) 230,000 3.4 (2.5–4.5) 60,000 Moderate 16.4 (13.1–20.2) 190,000 4.9 (3.3–7.1) 50,000 Severe 24.1 (19.6–29.3) 270,000 8.8 (6.3–12.1) 90,000 Family affluence scale Low 12.3 (10.4–14.5) 310,000 4.4 (3.6–5.4) 110,000 Medium 10.0 (8.3–11.9) 450,000 3.0 (2.2–4.0) 130,000 High 10.8 (8.8–13.1) 350,000 3.8 (2.9–4.9) 120,000 Grades in school Mostly As 6.0 (4.8–7.3) 280,000 1.7 (1.2–2.4) 70,000 Mostly Bs 12.2 (10.0–14.9) 340,000 3.7 (2.7–5.0) 100,000 Mostly Cs 17.0 (13.9–20.7) 190,000 6.1 (4.5–8.3) 70,000 Mostly Ds 27.9 (21.4–35.5) 110,000 11.2 (7.6–16.1) 40,000 Mostly Fs 30.4 (22.0–40.4) 90,000 13.3 (9.1–19.1) 40,000 Speak language other than English (home) Yes 11.1 (8.8–13.9) 350,000 3.8 (2.8–5.2) 120,000 No 10.9 (9.2–12.9) 810,000 3.6 (2.8–4.5) 260,000 Abbreviations: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes; PHQ-4 = four-item Patient Health Questionnaire.
* Any tobacco product includes e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; dissolvable tobacco products), hookahs, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), heated tobacco products and nicotine pouches.
Ever use of any tobacco product was defined as self-reported ever use of any tobacco product, even just one time.
Current use of any tobacco product was defined as self-reported use of any tobacco product on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
† Estimated weighted total numbers of ever and current tobacco product users were rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates by school level because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report grade level.
§ Overall estimates were reported among 20,413 U.S.
middle and high school students.
School level was determined by self-reported grade level: high school (grades 9–12; n = 10,515) and middle school (grades 6–8; n = 9,763).
¶ A composite scale made up of four questions to assess psychological distress: “During the past two weeks, how often have you been bothered by any of the following problems?”: 1) little interest or pleasure in doing things; 2) feeling down, depressed, or hopeless; 3) feeling nervous, anxious, or on edge; 4) not being able or stop or control worrying.
Responses were summed (range: 0–12) and categorized as none (0–2), mild (3–5), moderate (6–8) and severe (9–12).
The PHQ–4 scale was reported among respondents who had complete data on all four questions (n = 17,355).
** A composite scale made up of four questions.
Summed responses (range: 0–9) were categorized into approximate tertiles based on the weighted distribution of scores in this sample: low (0–5), medium (6–7), and high (8–9).
The family affluence scale was reported among respondents who had complete data on all four questions (n = 17,878).
Top TABLE 4.
Frequency of use* among middle and high school students currently (past 30-day) using each tobacco product,† overall and by school level — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic 1–5 days 6–19 days 20–30 days % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ Overall E-cigarettes 44.5 (40.7–48.3) 910,000 16.2 (13.8–18.8) 330,000 39.4 (35.4–43.5) 810,000 Cigarettes 66.5 (57.8–74.3) 270,000 14.6 (10.4–20.1) 60,000 18.9 (13.6–25.7) 70,000 Cigars 67.1 (60.0–73.5) 250,000 12.2 (8.3–17.7) 40,000 20.7 (15.3–27.4) 80,000 Chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip 50.5 (40.1–60.9) 100,000 20.0 (13.8–28.0) 30,000 29.5 (22.4–37.9) 50,000 Snus 57.3 (41.7–71.6) 50,000 —¶ — 26.1 (15.5–40.6) 20,000 Hookahs 66.2 (57.1–74.3) 140,000 13.9 (9.0–20.9) 30,000 19.9 (14.0–27.5) 40,000 Pipe tobacco 65.3 (45.8–80.7) 50,000 — — — — Heated tobacco products 54.3 (42.9–65.3) 90,000 23.6 (15.3–34.7) 40,000 22.1 (13.7–33.5) 30,000 Nicotine pouches 63.5 (53.5–72.5) 120,000 19.3 (11.7–30.1) 30,000 17.2 (11.3–25.3) 30,000 High school (grades 9–12) E-cigarettes 40.2 (36.0–44.5) 690,000 16.3 (13.5–19.5) 280,000 43.6 (39.0–48.2) 750,000 Cigarettes 66.9 (56.5–75.9) 190,000 13.3 (8.7–19.7) 30,000 19.9 (13.8–27.6) 50,000 Cigars 67.3 (59.0–74.6) 210,000 12.0 (7.7–18.3) 30,000 20.7 (14.6–28.5) 60,000 Chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip 47.6 (34.8–60.6) 60,000 22.2 (14.2–33.0) 30,000 30.3 (21.8–40.2) 40,000 Snus — — — — — — Hookahs 68.2 (57.5–77.3) 120,000 14.7 (9.3–22.6) 20,000 17.0 (11.0–25.5) 30,000 Pipe tobacco — — — — — — Heated tobacco products 55.6 (41.7–68.7) 60,000 19.7 (12.2–30.3) 20,000 24.7 (13.6–40.6) 30,000 Nicotine pouches 64.1 (52.1–74.6) 100,000 21.0 (12.2–33.5) 30,000 15.0 (9.1–23.7) 20,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) E-cigarettes 66.7 (60.0–72.8) 210,000 16.1 (11.3–22.6) 50,000 17.2 (12.8–22.6) 50,000 Cigarettes 68.0 (56.1–77.9) 80,000 14.8 (8.2–25.1) 10,000 17.2 (9.3–29.8) 20,000 Cigars 66.7 (51.3–79.1) 40,000 — — 20.1 (10.8–34.4) 10,000 Chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip 57.6 (43.2–70.7) 30,000 — — 28.0 (16.0–44.3) 10,000 Snus — — — — — — Hookahs — — — — — — Pipe tobacco — — — — — — Heated tobacco products 51.0 (30.1–71.5) 20,000 — — — — Nicotine pouches — — — — — — Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* Frequency of current use of e-cigarettes; cigarettes; cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars); chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; dissolvable tobacco products; pipe tobacco; hookahs; heated tobacco products; and nicotine pouches was determined by asking respondents on how many days they smoked or used each respective tobacco product during the past 30 days.
Respondents could enter a valid response of 0–30 days.
Responses were recoded as 1–5 days, 6–19 days, and 20–30 days.
† Estimates of frequency of use of dissolvable tobacco products are statistically unreliable (overall and by school level) and are omitted from the table.
§ Estimated weighted total number of users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report grade level.
Top TABLE 5.
Flavored tobacco product* use among middle and high school students overall and among those who reported current (past 30-day) use† of each tobacco product, by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Tobacco product Any tobacco§ E-cigarettes Cigarettes¶ Cigars Smokeless tobacco** Hookahs Pipe tobacco Heated tobacco products Nicotine pouches % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Overall Flavored tobacco product use among all students†† 7.2 (6.2–8.2) 6.2 (5.3–7.3) 0.6 (0.4–0.8) 0.6 (0.5–0.8) 0.6 (0.5–0.9) 0.4 (0.3–0.5) 0.1 (0.1–0.2) 0.3 (0.2–0.4) 0.5 (0.3–0.7) Current use Estimated weighted no.
of flavored tobacco product users§§ 1,950,000 1,680,000 150,000 160,000 170,000 100,000 30,000 70,000 120,000 Flavored tobacco product use among current tobacco users¶¶ 79.1 (76.0–81.9) 84.7 (81.4–87.5) 38.8 (32.3–45.7) 44.4 (36.9–52.1) 70.1 (60.8–77.9) 46.6 (38.3–55.2) 34.4 (20.1–52.1) 44.0 (34.0–54.5) 61.6 (49.7–72.2) School level High school (grades 9–12) 80.2 (76.8–83.3) 85.8 (82.3–88.7) 41.1 (33.2–49.5) 41.1 (32.9–49.7) 72.1 (60.3–81.5) 42.9 (33.1–53.3) —*** 41.0 (27.8–55.7) 63.9 (50.1–75.7) Middle school (grades 6–8) 74.6 (67.5–80.6) 79.2 (69.1–86.6) 34.8 (24.9–46.3) 59.9 (46.5–72.0) 65.5 (50.9–77.6) — — 51.5 (35.2–67.4) — Sex Female 84.3 (80.2–87.7) 88.8 (85.1–91.6) 41.8 (32.5–51.8) 55.8 (43.3–67.6) 61.9 (44.3–76.8) 52.2 (39.5–64.6) — 55.1 (37.6–71.4) — Male 74.1 (70.0–77.8) 80.5 (75.7–84.6) 37.0 (28.5–46.4) 38.2 (29.9–47.3) 72.6 (61.0–81.8) 40.4 (29.5–52.4) — 35.5 (21.1–53.1) 60.3 (45.0–73.8) Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 82.9 (79.4–85.9) 86.5 (82.5–89.7) 38.2 (29.4–47.7) 43.6 (34.8–52.8) 75.7 (62.9–85.2) 36.0 (21.6–53.4) — 37.7 (23.8–54.0) 65.2 (48.7–78.7) Black, non-Hispanic 66.2 (58.8–72.8) 76.3 (61.8–86.6) — 46.3 (33.6–59.4) — 50.4 (36.0–64.8) — — — Hispanic††† 76.4 (71.2–80.9) 83.6 (78.0–88.0) 28.6 (19.4–40.1) 45.3 (29.0–62.7) — — — — — Other, non-Hispanic 79.4 (67.1–87.9) 86.6 (72.3–94.2) — — — — — — — Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
† Reported among respective current (past 30-day) users for each product.
Past 30-day use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigarettes?” Past 30-day use of cigars was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars?” Past 30-day use of smokeless tobacco was determined by asking the following question for use of chewing tobacco, snuff, and dip: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip?” Past 30-day use of snus was determined by asking the following question for use of snus: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use snus?” Past 30-day use of dissolvable tobacco products was determined by asking the following question for use of dissolvable tobacco products: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use dissolvable tobacco products?” Past 30-day use of pipe tobacco was determined by asking the following question for use of pipe tobacco: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke pipes filled with tobacco?” Past 30-day use of hookahs was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you smoke tobacco in a hookah or water pipe?” Past 30-day use of heated tobacco products was determined by asking the following question for use of heated tobacco products: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use heated tobacco products?” Past 30-day use of nicotine pouches was determined by asking the following question for use of heated tobacco products: “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use nicotine pouches?” § Any tobacco use includes use of e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars (cigars, cigarillos, or little cigars), smokeless tobacco (chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; dissolvable tobacco products), hookahs, pipe tobacco, bidis (small brown cigarettes wrapped in a leaf), heated tobacco products, and nicotine pouches on ≥1 day during the past 30 days.
¶ Flavored cigarette use refers to menthol cigarette use.
Current cigarette smokers were categorized as flavored (menthol) cigarette smokers: if they responded “yes” to the question, “Menthol cigarettes are cigarettes that taste like mint.
During the past 30 days, were the cigarettes that you usually smoked menthol?”; or if they indicated “Kool” or “Newport” as a brand they usually smoked in the past 30 days.
Usual brand was determined based on responses to two questions: 1) “During the past 30 days, what brands of cigarettes did you smoke?
(Select one or more)” and 2) “During the past 30 days, what brand of cigarettes did you usually smoke?
(Choose only one answer).” If “Kool” or “Newport” was the only brand selected for the first question, or if multiple brands were selected in the first question and “Kool” or “Newport” was selected for the second question, “Kool” or “Newport” was considered the respondent’s usual brand.
Those who selected “some other brand(s) not listed here” could provide a write-in response; write-in responses corresponding to an original response option were recoded.
Those who reported “no” or “not sure” to the menthol question or those who did not report “Newport” or “Kool” as their usual brand were categorized as nonmenthol smokers; all other past 30-day cigarette smokers who did not provide any valid response were assigned as missing menthol smoking status.
** Flavored tobacco product use was assessed separately among current (past 30-day) users of chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; and dissolvable tobacco product users.
Flavored use was then recoded as a composite among users of any current smokeless tobacco product combined.
†† Calculated among all respondents regardless of tobacco product use status.
§§ Estimated weighted total number of flavored tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
¶¶ Calculated among current users of any tobacco (n =1,792), e-cigarettes (n = 1,383), cigarettes (n = 314), cigars (n = 299), smokeless tobacco (n = 210), hookahs (n = 168), pipe tobacco (n = 64), heated tobacco products (n = 133), and nicotine pouches (n = 137).
††† Hispanic persons could be of any race.
Top FIGURE 2.
Flavor types* used among middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) use of flavored tobacco products, by product†,§,¶ — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
(Select one or more).” Response options were menthol, mint, clove or spice, alcoholic drinks (such as wine, cognac, margarita, or other cocktails), candy, desserts, or other sweets, fruit, chocolate, and some other flavor not listed here (write-in responses).
Write-in responses were examined and recoded to a prespecified response option where applicable.
† For cigarettes, flavored use refers to menthol cigarette use only.
All other flavor types for cigarettes are not applicable.
Menthol cigarette use is omitted from this figure.
§ For smokeless tobacco, flavor types were assessed separately among flavored chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; and dissolvable tobacco product users.
Flavor types were then assessed as a composite among current users of chewing, snuff, dip, snus or dissolvable tobacco products.
All estimates of flavor types used for pipe tobacco were statistically unreliable and are omitted from this figure.
Top FIGURE 3.
E-cigarette device types* reported among middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) use of e-cigarettes, overall and by school level — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* Device type among current e-cigarette users was assessed by the question, “Which of the following best describes the type of e-cigarette you have used in the past 30 days?
If you have used more than one type, please think about the one you use most often.
Response options included the following: “a disposable e-cigarette (for example, Puff Bar or Stig),” “an e-cigarette that uses pre-filled or refillable pods or cartridges (for example, Juul, Smok, or Suorin),” “an e-cigarette with a tank that you refill with liquids (including mod systems that can be customized by the user),” and “I don’t know the type.” † Past 30-day use of e-cigarettes was determined by asking, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?” Those indicating use on ≥1 day of the past 30 days were considered current user of the respective product.
Top TABLE 6.
Reasons for first e-cigarette use* among middle and high school students who reported ever using e-cigarettes, and reasons for current (past 30-day) e-cigarette use† among middle and high school students who reported currently using e-cigarettes, overall and by school level — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Among ever e-cigarette users Among current e-cigarette users % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users§ % (95% CI) Estimated no.
* Responses to the question, “Why did you first use an e-cigarette?
(Select one or more)” were assessed among students who reported “yes” to the question, “Have you ever used an e-cigarette, even once or twice?” Respondents indicating “some other reason” could specify through write-in option; write-ins were not examined in this report (n = 275).
† Responses to the question, “Why did you currently use e-cigarettes?
(Select one or more)” were assessed among students who reported using e-cigarettes on 1–30 days, from the question, “During the past 30 days, on how many days did you use e-cigarettes?
Respondents indicating “some other reason” could specify through write-in option; write-ins were not examined in this report (n = 195).
§ Estimated weighted total numbers of ever and current e-cigarette users were rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report grade level.
Top TABLE 7.
I did not buy them 48.6 (45.9–51.4) 37.2 (34.2–40.3) 48.0 (40.9–55.2) 33.2 (26.1–41.1) 33.4 (24.2–44.0) 54.2 (45.7–62.5) 37.0 (25.0–50.8) 33.2 (24.2–43.5) 34.3 (24.3–46.0) Bought them from another person (friend, family member, someone else) 22.5 (19.4–26.1) 21.5 (18.2–25.2) 14.7 (10.3–20.5) 13.4 (9.2–19.0) 21.0 (14.4–29.4) — 23.6 (13.2–38.6) 24.2 (15.5–35.8) 13.9 (7.9–23.3) A vape shop or tobacco shop 20.2 (16.8–24.0) 22.2 (18.3–26.6) 7.0 (4.1–11.7) 12.2 (8.2–17.8) — — — — — A gas station, convenience store 19.6 (16.9–22.7) 17.7 (14.4–21.5) 17.1 (12.1–23.6) 34.1 (26.2–42.9) 17.9 (11.2–27.3) 8.5 (4.7–15.0) — — — A drugstore 4.8 (3.5–6.5) 3.7 (2.6–5.4) — — 5.0 (2.8–8.8) — — — — A grocery store 4.8 (3.6–6.4) 2.6 (1.6–4.0) 5.3 (3.0–9.1) — 10.3 (5.8–17.7) — — — — Through the mail 3.6 (2.4–5.4) 2.2 (1.3–3.8) — — 6.7 (3.7–11.9) — — — — On the Internet 3.5 (2.5–4.8) 2.9 (1.9–4.5) — — — — — — — A mall or shopping center kiosk or stand 3.2 (2.1–4.9) 1.7 (1.0–2.8) — — — — — — — A vending machine 2.9 (2.1–4.2) 1.8 (1.2–2.8) — — — 6.9 (3.7–12.2) — — — Through a delivery service 2.4 (1.6–3.5) 1.6 (0.9–2.5) — — — — — — — Some other place 15.8 (13.8–18.1) 12.3 (10.5–14.4) 17.9 (12.6–24.8) 14.5 (9.6–21.3) 22.2 (16.3–29.3) 18.9 (11.0–30.4) — 19.8 (13.2–28.7) 21.5 (13.0–33.4) Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
¶ Access (“how did you get …” and “where did you buy …”) during the past 30 days was assessed separately for smokeless tobacco products (chewing tobacco, snuff, or dip; snus; or dissolvable tobacco products).
Access was then recoded as a smokeless composite among students who reported past 30-day use of one or more smokeless tobacco product.
Top TABLE 8.
Recognition of public education campaign advertisements against tobacco product use in the past 12 months* among middle and high school students, overall and by school level — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Sex Race and ethnicity Total Male Female White, non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic Hispanic† Other, non-Hispanic % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Estimated no.§ Overall One or more 78.3 (76.5–79.9) 71.9 (70.3–73.5) 79.2 (77.6–80.8) 75.8 (73.2–78.3) 69.8 (67.7–71.7) 67.6 (62.4–72.3) 75.2 (73.7–76.6) 19,560,000 The Real Cost 65.0 (62.7–67.3) 56.5 (54.4–58.5) 66.5 (64.5–68.6) 54.9 (51.3–58.4) 55.0 (52.9–57.1) 54.8 (49.0–60.5) 60.9 (58.9–62.8) 15,830,000 Truth 41.7 (39.4–43.9) 37.7 (35.8–39.6) 43.9 (41.5–46.3) 38.2 (34.7–41.8) 35.9 (34.2–37.6) 29.9 (26.6–33.5) 39.7 (37.9–41.6) 10,200,000 Tips, Tips from Former Smokers 19.9 (18.6–21.2) 19.7 (18.5–21.1) 21.8 (20.4–23.2) 20.8 (18.3–23.5) 16.9 (15.7–18.2) 16.5 (12.9–20.9) 19.8 (18.7–20.9) 5,080,000 Fresh Empire 7.5 (5.5–10.1) 6.3 (5.5–7.3) 5.4 (4.1–7.0) 17.6 (13.9–21.9) 5.9 (5.1–6.9) 4.7 (3.1–7.0) 6.9 (5.7–8.4) 1,780,000 This Free Life 5.0 (4.4–5.6) 4.5 (3.9–5.3) 4.7 (3.9–5.5) 5.8 (4.6–7.2) 4.7 (3.9–5.6) 4.7 (3.2–6.8) 4.8 (4.3–5.3) 1,220,000 Some other advertisement 12.0 (11.0–13.0) 11.3 (10.4–12.3) 11.0 (10.0–12.0) 13.7 (11.9–15.6) 12.2 (11.2–13.3) 10.6 (8.5–13.1) 11.7 (11.0–12.4) 2,990,000 High school (grades 9–12) One or more 82.4 (80.4–84.3) 76.1 (73.9–78.2) 84.1 (82.5–85.5) 78.0 (74.6–81.1) 71.3 (68.4–74.1) 74.0 (68.2–79.0) 79.4 (77.7–81.1) 11,570,000 The Real Cost 69.4 (66.6–72.1) 61.7 (59.2–64.2) 71.9 (69.5–74.2) 56.6 (52.4–60.6) 57.9 (55.4–60.3) 61.3 (52.6–69.3) 65.8 (63.4–68.0) 9,560,000 Truth 48.4 (45.7–51.0) 44.2 (41.8–46.7) 51.4 (49.1–53.7) 40.8 (36.3–45.5) 40.3 (37.5–43.1) 37.0 (30.7–43.8) 46.4 (44.1–48.7) 6,680,000 Tips, Tips from Former Smokers 21.7 (20.0–23.5) 20.2 (18.3–22.2) 23.2 (21.5–25.0) 21.6 (18.1–25.5) 17.5 (15.7–19.4) 14.3 (10.2–19.7) 21.0 (19.6–22.5) 3,020,000 Fresh Empire 10.1 (7.0–14.3) 7.5 (6.2–8.9) 6.7 (4.9–9.2) 22.8 (17.3–29.4) 7.1 (5.7–8.8) 6.2 (3.9–9.6) 8.8 (6.9–11.2) 1,270,000 This Free Life 5.2 (4.4–6.0) 4.7 (3.9–5.7) 4.6 (3.8–5.6) 5.0 (3.8–6.6) 5.4 (4.4–6.6) 6.1 (4.1–9.0) 4.9 (4.4–5.6) 710,000 Some other advertisement 10.7 (9.6–12.0) 8.6 (7.6–9.8) 9.0 (7.9–10.3) 12.3 (9.9–15.2) 10.0 (8.7–11.6) 10.1 (6.9–14.5) 9.7 (8.9–10.6) 1,400,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) One or more 72.9 (70.6–75.0) 66.8 (64.7–68.8) 72.4 (70.1–74.6) 73.1 (69.2–76.7) 68.0 (65.1–70.6) 62.2 (55.8–68.2) 69.8 (68.0–71.6) 7,940,000 The Real Cost 59.5 (56.5–62.4) 50.1 (47.4–52.8) 59.0 (56.5–61.5) 52.8 (46.4–59.1) 51.8 (47.7–55.8) 49.4 (43.5–55.3) 54.8 (52.4–57.3) 6,250,000 Truth 32.9 (30.9–34.9) 29.6 (27.8–31.5) 33.0 (30.8–35.2) 34.6 (30.5–38.8) 30.8 (28.3–33.3) 23.8 (20.2–27.8) 31.2 (29.7–32.8) 3,490,000 Tips, Tips from Former Smokers 17.5 (16.0–19.1) 19.2 (17.9–20.6) 19.7 (18.0–21.5) 19.8 (16.8–23.1) 16.3 (14.6–18.0) 18.5 (14.7–23.0) 18.3 (17.1–19.5) 2,040,000 Fresh Empire 4.1 (3.4–5.0) 5.0 (4.0–6.1) 3.4 (2.6–4.6) 10.5 (7.8–14.1) 4.6 (3.4–6.0) —¶ 4.5 (3.8–5.3) 500,000 This Free Life 4.7 (3.8–5.8) 4.4 (3.4–5.5) 4.7 (3.5–6.3) 6.8 (4.9–9.5) 3.9 (3.0–4.9) — 4.5 (3.8–5.4) 500,000 Some other advertisement 13.6 (12.1–15.1) 14.6 (13.4–16.0) 13.7 (12.3–15.2) 15.6 (13.4–18.1) 14.6 (13.0–16.4) 11.0 (9.1–13.3) 14.1 (13.2–15.0) 1,580,000 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
* All respondents were asked, “In the past 12 months, have you seen or heard “The Real Cost,” on television, the internet, social media, or radio as part of ads about tobacco?” Response options included “yes,” “no,” and “not sure.” Those who selected “yes” were considered to have recognized the advertisement.
Additionally, all respondents were asked, “In the past 12 months, have you seen or heard any other ads against tobacco with the following names or slogans on television, the internet, social media, or on the radio?
(Select one or more).” Response options included : “Truth,” “Tips or Tips from Former Smokers,” “Fresh Empire,” “This Free Life,” “some other ad”; or exclusively select “I haven’t seen or heard any of these ads.” A composite of having recognized at least one ad was also assessed.
Those who indicated “some other ad” could specify with a write-in response; analysis of these write-in responses (n = 892) was not included in this report.
† Hispanic persons could be of any race.
§ Estimated weighted total number of flavored tobacco product users was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report grade level.
Top TABLE 9.
Exposure* to sources of tobacco product marketing (advertisements or promotions) among middle and high school students who reported contact with each source, overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Retail stores† Internet§ Television, streaming services, or movies¶ Newspapers or magazines** Any source†† % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Prevalence of exposure to any tobacco product marketing (e-cigarettes, cigarettes, and other tobacco products) Overall 65.4 (63.6–67.1) 43.9 (42.3–45.4) 30.3 (28.9–31.8) 34.0 (32.6–35.4) 75.7 (74.3–77.0) Estimated no.§§ 16,240,000 11,050,000 7,460,000 4,830,000 19,210,000 Sex Male 64.2 (62.3–66.1) 40.9 (39.2–42.6) 27.4 (25.9–29.0) 33.4 (31.5–35.3) 73.2 (71.7–74.8) Female 66.6 (64.6–68.6) 46.9 (45.3–48.6) 33.3 (31.6–34.9) 34.6 (32.8–36.4) 78.3 (76.8–79.8) Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 69.9 (67.7–71.9) 42.8 (40.6–45.0) 27.8 (26.0–29.8) 33.1 (31.1–35.0) 78.1 (76.5–79.6) Black, non-Hispanic 61.7 (59.2–64.1) 49.2 (47.0–51.3) 39.7 (36.5–43.1) 36.2 (33.4–39.2) 76.0 (73.7–78.3) Hispanic¶¶ 61.3 (59.6–63.0) 45.0 (42.9–47.0) 31.9 (30.0–33.8) 35.0 (32.7–37.3) 73.9 (72.3–75.3) Other, non-Hispanic 53.9 (50.4–57.5) 40.6 (36.0–45.3) 27.7 (24.5–31.1) 34.1 (28.9–39.7) 66.0 (62.3–69.5) School level High school (grades 9–12) 69.7 (67.4–71.9) 45.8 (43.8–47.8) 32.6 (30.4–34.9) 35.6 (33.7–37.5) 79.6 (78.0–81.1) Middle school (grades 6–8) 59.8 (57.7–61.9) 41.2 (39.3–43.2) 27.3 (25.5–29.2) 31.6 (29.5–33.8) 70.7 (69.1–72.3) Exposure to e-cigarette marketing*** Overall 58.7 (56.9–60.5) 36.0 (34.8–37.2) 21.7 (20.5–23.0) 28.7 (27.2–30.1) 70.3 (68.8–71.7) Estimated no.
14,370,000 8,970,000 5,240,000 3,500,000 17,770,000 Sex Male 57.5 (55.6–59.4) 33.7 (32.3–35.1) 19.8 (18.5–21.2) 28.3 (26.3–30.4) 67.7 (66.1–69.3) Female 60.0 (57.9–62.0) 38.4 (37.0–39.8) 23.6 (22.2–25.0) 29.1 (27.2–31.0) 73.0 (71.3–74.6) Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 63.6 (61.5–65.7) 35.9 (34.2–37.6) 19.3 (17.7–21.1) 27.7 (25.8–29.7) 73.1 (71.4–74.7) Black, non-Hispanic 52.4 (49.8–55.0) 38.6 (36.7–40.5) 30.4 (27.7–33.2) 30.6 (27.2–34.3) 70.4 (68.0–72.7) Hispanic 54.7 (52.9–56.6) 36.2 (34.7–37.8) 23.1 (21.6–24.7) 30.4 (28.0–32.9) 67.7 (65.8–69.4) Other, non-Hispanic 47.3 (43.5–51.1) 33.1 (29.0–37.5) 20.2 (17.2–23.5) 26.6 (21.4–32.5) 60.0 (56.1–63.8) School level High school (grades 9–12) 63.2 (60.8–65.6) 38.1 (36.4–39.8) 23.3 (21.5–25.3) 29.4 (27.4–31.6) 74.3 (72.6–75.9) Middle school (grades 6–8) 52.8 (50.9–54.8) 33.2 (31.6–34.8) 19.5 (18.1–21.0) 27.4 (25.4–29.6) 65.1 (63.4–66.7) Exposure to cigarette and other tobacco product marketing††† Overall 50.9 (49.1–52.7) 27.0 (25.5–28.5) 21.4 (20.1–22.7) 25.5 (24.3–26.8) 59.1 (57.2–60.9) Estimated no.
12,100,000 6,500,000 5,040,000 2,920,000 14,550,000 Sex Male 49.6 (47.8–51.4) 25.1 (23.4–26.8) 19.4 (18.0–20.8) 24.7 (23.2–26.1) 56.8 (54.9–58.7) Female 52.4 (50.2–54.6) 28.9 (27.0–30.8) 23.4 (21.9–25.0) 26.3 (24.6–28.2) 61.5 (59.1–63.9) Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 54.9 (52.5–57.2) 25.6 (23.6–27.6) 19.3 (17.8–20.9) 25.2 (23.5–26.9) 61.8 (59.3–64.2) Black, non-Hispanic 47.4 (44.6–50.1) 32.5 (30.3–34.7) 28.0 (25.4–30.8) 28.4 (26.1–30.9) 58.9 (56.3–61.4) Hispanic 48.0 (46.2–49.8) 28.0 (26.1–29.9) 23.3 (21.6–25.0) 24.9 (22.7–27.4) 56.9 (55.1–58.7) Other, non-Hispanic 40.2 (36.7–43.7) 25.4 (21.5–29.7) 18.8 (15.7–22.4) 24.9 (20.8–29.5) 49.3 (44.9–53.6) School level High school (grades 9–12) 53.9 (51.6–56.2) 27.3 (25.3–29.3) 23.3 (21.4–25.2) 27.0 (25.3–28.9) 61.7 (59.4–63.9) Middle school (grades 6–8) 47.1 (44.8–49.4) 26.4 (24.7–28.2) 19.0 (17.5–20.5) 23.2 (21.1–25.4) 55.7 (53.4–57.9) Abbreviations: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes; TV = television.
* Exposure to tobacco product marketing was assessed for each of four marketing sources (retail stores; Internet; television, streaming sources, or movies; and newspapers or magazines) and any source combined.
For each source, exposure was assessed separately for 1) e-cigarettes and 2) cigarettes or other tobacco products.
A composite measure of exposure to any tobacco product marketing was also assessed.
Prevalence of exposure to tobacco product marketing was restricted to students who reported using each source.
† Assessed by the questions, “When you go to a convenience store, supermarket, or gas station, how often do you see ads or promotions for (e-cigarettes; cigarettes or other tobacco products)?” Response options for both questions included, “I never go to a convenience store, supermarket, or gas station,” “never,” “rarely,” “sometimes,” “most of the time,” and “always.” Respondents were categorized as exposed if they reported “sometimes,” “most of the time,” or “always”; respondents were categorized as unexposed if they reported “never” or “rarely.” Persons who reported “I never go to a convenience store, supermarket, or gas station” were set to missing and excluded from product-specific analyses.
Total unweighted denominators included n = 18,065 (e-cigarettes) and n = 17,571 (cigarettes or other tobacco products).
A composite measure of exposure to any tobacco product marketing when going to retail stores (e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products) was assessed among respondents who had visited a retail outlet and had nonmissing data for at least one measure (n = 18,361).
§ Assessed by the questions, “When you are using the Internet, how often do you see ads or promotions for (e-cigarettes; cigarettes or other tobacco products)?” Response options for both questions included, “I do not use the Internet,” “never,” “rarely,” “sometimes,” “most of the time,” and “always.” Respondents were categorized as exposed if they reported “sometimes,” “most of the time,” or “always”; respondents were categorized as unexposed if they reported “never” or “rarely.” Persons who reported “I do not use the Internet” were set to missing and excluded from product-specific analyses.
Total unweighted denominators included n = 18,408 (e-cigarettes) and n = 17,858 (cigarettes or other tobacco products).
A composite measure of exposure to any tobacco product marketing when using the Internet (e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products) was assessed among respondents who had used the Internet and had nonmissing data for at least one measure (n = 18,627).
¶ Assessed by the questions, “When you watch TV or streaming services (such as Netflix, Hulu, or Amazon Prime), or go to the movies, how often do you see ads or promotions for (e-cigarettes; cigarettes or other tobacco products)?” Response options for both questions included, “I do not watch TV or streaming services, or go to the movies,” “never,” “rarely,” “sometimes,” “most of the time,” and “always.” Respondents were categorized as exposed if they reported “sometimes,” “most of the time,” or “always”; respondents were categorized as unexposed if they reported “never” or “rarely.” Persons who reported “I do not watch TV or streaming services or go to the movies” were set to missing and excluded from product-specific analyses.
Total unweighted denominators for exposure to tobacco product marketing included n = 17,883 (e-cigarettes) and n = 17,428 (cigarettes or other tobacco products).
A composite measure of exposure to any tobacco product marketing when watching television or streaming services or going to the movies (e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products) was assessed among respondents who had watched TV or streaming services or who went to the movies and had nonmissing data for at least one measure (n = 18,215).
** Assessed by the questions, “When you read newspapers or magazines, how often do you see ads or promotions for (e-cigarettes; cigarettes or other tobacco products)?” Response options for both questions included, “I do not read newspapers or magazines,” “never,” “rarely,” “sometimes,” “most of the time,” and “always.” Respondents were categorized as exposed if they reported “sometimes,” “most of the time,” or “always”; respondents were categorized as unexposed if they reported “never” or “rarely.” Persons who reported “I do not read newspapers or magazines” were set to missing and excluded from the analyses.
Total unweighted denominators for exposure to tobacco product marketing included n = 9,082 (e-cigarettes) and n = 8,583 (cigarettes or other tobacco products).
A composite measure of exposure to any tobacco product marketing when reading newspapers or magazines (e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products) was assessed among respondents who had read newspapers or magazines and had nonmissing data for at least one measure (n = 10,627).
†† A composite measure of any advertising or promotion exposure (any source) was assessed based on exposure to retail stores; the Internet, television, streaming services, movies; and newspapers or magazines.
Total unweighted denominators included n = 18,696 (e-cigarettes), n = 18,220 (cigarettes or other tobacco products), and n = 18,763 (e-cigarettes and cigarettes or other tobacco products).
For each category (e-cigarettes, cigarettes or other tobacco products, and overall), persons with missing data across each potential source or those who reported “I never go to a convenience stores, supermarket, or gas station,” “I do not use the Internet,” “I do not watch TV or streaming services or go to the movies,” and “I do not read newspapers or magazines” were excluded from the analysis.
§§ Estimated weighted total number of students was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
¶¶ Hispanic persons could be of any race.
*** Respondents were instructed as follows: “The next five questions ask about issues related to e-cigarette advertisement.
Do not think about cigarettes or other tobacco products when answering these questions.” ††† Respondents were instructed as follows: “The next five questions ask about issues related to advertisements for tobacco products such as cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, hookahs, roll-your-own cigarettes, pipe tobacco, snus, dissolvable tobacco products, bidis, heated tobacco products, and nicotine pouches.
Do not think of e-cigarettes when answering these questions.” Top TABLE 10.
Observance of, and engagement with, e-cigarette content on social media among middle and high school students who reported using social media,* overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Sex Race and ethnicity Total Female Male White, non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic Hispanic† Other, non-Hispanic % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) Estimated no.§ Overall Seeing e-cigarette–related post or content¶ Never 23.9 (22.2–25.8) 29.1 (27.5–30.7) 23.3 (21.8–24.8) 32.3 (30.0–34.6) 28.3 (26.4–30.2) 31.1 (25.9–36.7) 26.5 (25.2–27.9) 6,060,000 Less than monthly 25.6 (24.3–26.8) 27.2 (25.7–28.7) 26.6 (25.2–28.0) 24.7 (22.6–26.8) 25.6 (24.0–27.3) 31.8 (29.0–34.6) 26.4 (25.3–27.5) 6,030,000 Monthly 14.1 (13.1–15.3) 13.2 (12.3–14.1) 14.7 (13.7–15.7) 10.5 (9.1–12.0) 13.7 (12.8–14.7) 12.1 (9.6–15.1) 13.7 (13.0–14.3) 3,120,000 Weekly 20.4 (18.8–22.2) 19.1 (17.7–20.5) 21.8 (20.1–23.5) 17.4 (15.5–19.4) 17.8 (16.2–19.5) 16.3 (13.5–19.7) 19.7 (18.5–21.0) 4,510,000 Daily 15.9 (14.5–17.4) 11.5 (10.7–12.5) 13.6 (12.3–15.1) 15.2 (13.4–17.2) 14.6 (13.4–15.9) 8.8 (6.7–11.4) 13.7 (12.8–14.7) 3,130,000 Posting pictures or videos of e-cigarette use (by self or others)** Never 85.8 (84.5–87.0) 85.5 (84.2–86.8) 87.4 (86.0–88.6) 80.0 (77.1–82.5) 84.0 (82.6–85.3) 87.4 (84.3–89.9) 85.6 (84.6–86.6) 19,490,000 Less than monthly 6.8 (6.0–7.6) 6.3 (5.6–7.1) 6.1 (5.4–6.8) 8.0 (6.7–9.5) 7.4 (6.3–8.7) 5.8 (3.9–8.8) 6.6 (6.1–7.1) 1,490,000 Monthly 2.4 (1.9–3.0) 3.3 (2.8–3.9) 2.5 (2.1–3.0) 4.0 (3.3–5.0) 3.1 (2.6–3.7) 3.0 (2.1–4.2) 2.9 (2.5–3.2) 640,000 Weekly 3.3 (2.8–3.9) 2.6 (2.2–3.2) 2.7 (2.1–3.4) 3.6 (2.8–4.7) 3.1 (2.6–3.7) 2.7 (1.6–4.6) 2.9 (2.6–3.3) 670,000 Daily 1.8 (1.5–2.1) 2.2 (1.8–2.8) 1.3 (1.0–1.7) 4.4 (3.3–5.9) 2.4 (2.0–3.0) —†† 2.0 (1.7–2.3) 450,000 Liking, commenting, sharing e-cigarette–related posts or content§§ Never 70.4 (69.0–71.8) 77.5 (76.2–78.7) 73.6 (72.2–74.9) 72.1 (69.8–74.3) 73.6 (72.1–75.0) 79.9 (76.1–83.3) 73.9 (72.9–74.9) 16,750,000 Less than monthly 16.9 (15.8–18.1) 13.0 (11.8–14.3) 15.8 (14.8–17.0) 15.2 (13.2–17.4) 14.1 (12.7–15.6) 12.6 (10.2–15.6) 15.0 (14.2–15.8) 3,390,000 Monthly 5.2 (4.6–5.8) 4.0 (3.4–4.6) 4.7 (4.1–5.3) 3.8 (2.9–4.9) 5.2 (4.4–6.1) 3.2 (2.1–4.8) 4.6 (4.1–5.0) 1,030,000 Weekly 5.0 (4.4–5.8) 3.5 (3.1–4.0) 4.1 (3.7–4.6) 4.6 (3.9–5.6) 4.6 (4.1–5.2) 2.9 (1.9–4.3) 4.3 (4.0–4.6) 960,000 Daily 2.5 (2.0–3.1) 2.0 (1.6–2.4) 1.7 (1.4–2.2) 4.3 (3.3–5.5) 2.6 (1.9–3.4) 1.3 (0.8–2.1) 2.3 (1.9–2.7) 510,000 High school (grades 9–12) Seeing e-cigarette–related post or content Never 17.7 (15.8–19.7) 22.3 (20.8–23.9) 17.2 (15.7–18.8) 29.1 (26.1–32.3) 21.5 (19.9–23.1) 23.0 (15.8–32.1) 20.0 (18.7–21.4) 2,650,000 Less than monthly 24.3 (22.8–25.8) 27.7 (25.8–29.7) 25.9 (24.1–27.7) 22.6 (20.2–25.2) 26.9 (24.9–29.0) 32.2 (28.4–36.3) 26.1 (24.7–27.5) 3,450,000 Monthly 15.3 (13.7–17.0) 15.0 (13.6–16.5) 16.2 (14.8–17.7) 12.3 (10.4–14.6) 14.3 (12.8–15.9) 14.5 (10.7–19.4) 15.1 (14.2–16.2) 2,000,000 Weekly 23.6 (21.6–25.7) 21.3 (19.6–23.1) 24.6 (22.5–26.8) 18.3 (15.6–21.3) 19.8 (17.4–22.3) 20.7 (15.9–26.5) 22.4 (20.9–24.0) 2,970,000 Daily 19.1 (17.2–21.3) 13.7 (12.4–15.1) 16.1 (14.2–18.3) 17.7 (15.4–20.2) 17.6 (15.6–19.8) 9.5 (6.7–13.4) 16.3 (15.0–17.7) 2,160,000 Posting pictures or videos of e-cigarette use (by self or others) Never 83.9 (82.6–85.2) 84.2 (82.4–85.8) 85.9 (84.0–87.6) 79.3 (76.5–81.8) 82.0 (80.2–83.6) 85.1 (80.9–88.5) 84.0 (82.8–85.2) 11,080,000 Less than monthly 7.1 (6.2–8.1) 6.8 (5.9–7.8) 6.6 (5.6–7.7) 7.4 (5.9–9.3) 7.8 (5.7–10.6) 6.6 (4.3–10.0) 6.9 (6.3–7.7) 910,000 Monthly 2.9 (2.3–3.6) 3.8 (3.0–4.8) 2.9 (2.4–3.7) 4.5 (3.4–5.9) 3.8 (2.9–4.8) 3.3 (1.9–5.7) 3.4 (2.9–4.0) 440,000 Weekly 3.9 (3.3–4.7) 3.0 (2.5–3.6) 3.1 (2.5–3.7) 4.1 (3.0–5.5) 3.8 (3.1–4.6) — 3.4 (3.0–3.9) 450,000 Daily 2.1 (1.7–2.7) 2.3 (1.7–3.1) 1.5 (1.1–2.1) 4.7 (3.2–6.7) 2.7 (2.1–3.5) — 2.2 (1.8–2.6) 290,000 Liking, commenting, sharing e-cigarette–related posts or content Never 66.7 (65.0–68.4) 73.7 (72.0–75.3) 69.9 (68.0–71.8) 70.9 (67.8–73.9) 69.8 (68.0–71.4) 74.6 (68.8–79.8) 70.3 (69.1–71.4) 9,230,000 Less than monthly 19.6 (18.0–21.3) 15.6 (14.1–17.3) 18.2 (16.7–19.8) 16.7 (13.9–19.8) 17.2 (15.3–19.3) 16.3 (12.7–20.6) 17.6 (16.5–18.7) 2,310,000 Monthly 5.7 (5.0–6.6) 4.9 (4.0–5.9) 5.6 (4.9–6.6) 3.5 (2.3–5.2) 5.7 (4.9–6.7) 4.0 (2.2–7.1) 5.3 (4.7–5.9) 690,000 Weekly 5.7 (4.8–6.7) 3.9 (3.3–4.6) 4.7 (4.0–5.5) 5.3 (4.2–6.7) 4.9 (4.0–6.0) 3.7 (2.4–5.7) 4.8 (4.2–5.4) 620,000 Daily 2.2 (1.7–2.9) 1.9 (1.4–2.6) 1.6 (1.2–2.0) 3.6 (2.6–5.0) 2.4 (1.7–3.5) — 2.1 (1.7–2.5) 270,000 Middle school (grades 6–8) Seeing e-cigarette–related post or content Never 32.2 (30.2–34.3) 39.1 (36.5–41.7) 32.8 (30.6–35.2) 37.1 (33.7–40.7) 36.9 (33.9–39.9) 38.8 (33.4–44.5) 35.5 (33.7–37.3) 3,390,000 Less than monthly 27.2 (25.4–29.0) 26.3 (24.1–28.5) 27.7 (25.7–29.8) 27.4 (24.2–30.9) 24.0 (21.6–26.5) 31.3 (27.3–35.7) 26.7 (25.3–28.2) 2,550,000 Monthly 12.6 (11.1–14.3) 10.5 (9.3–11.8) 12.3 (10.8–13.9) 7.8 (5.9–10.3) 13.0 (10.9–15.5) 9.7 (7.2–12.9) 11.6 (10.6–12.7) 1,100,000 Weekly 16.4 (14.8–18.1) 15.8 (14.0–17.7) 17.5 (15.7–19.4) 16.1 (13.9–18.6) 15.2 (13.1–17.7) 12.1 (9.5–15.2) 16.1 (14.8–17.5) 1,530,000 Daily 11.6 (10.1–13.3) 8.4 (7.1–9.8) 9.7 (8.2–11.5) 11.6 (9.2–14.4) 10.9 (9.3–12.8) 8.1 (5.5–11.8) 10.1 (9.0–11.3) 960,000 Posting pictures or videos of e-cigarette use (by self or others) Never 88.4 (86.3–90.3) 87.6 (85.8–89.2) 89.7 (88.0–91.2) 81.3 (75.8–85.7) 86.7 (84.3–88.8) 89.6 (86.2–92.2) 88.0 (86.3–89.4) 8,370,000 Less than monthly 6.2 (5.1–7.6) 5.6 (4.8–6.6) 5.3 (4.3–6.5) 8.4 (6.5–10.8) 6.9 (5.5–8.5) — 6.0 (5.2–6.9) 570,000 Monthly 1.7 (1.2–2.4) 2.6 (2.1–3.2) 1.8 (1.4–2.4) 3.4 (2.2–5.2) 2.2 (1.5–3.3) 2.7 (1.9–3.8) 2.1 (1.8–2.6) 200,000 Weekly 2.4 (1.6–3.4) 2.1 (1.5–3.1) 2.1 (1.3–3.4) 2.9 (1.8–4.7) 2.2 (1.4–3.7) — 2.2 (1.6–3.0) 210,000 Daily 1.3 (0.9–1.9) 2.0 (1.4–2.9) 1.0 (0.6–1.7) 4.0 (2.3–6.9) 1.9 (1.3–2.9) — 1.7 (1.2–2.2) 150,000 Liking, commenting, sharing e-cigarette–related posts or content Never 75.2 (72.9–77.4) 83.0 (81.1–84.7) 79.3 (77.4–81.1) 73.7 (70.1–77.0) 78.4 (75.6–80.9) 85.0 (81.0–88.2) 79.0 (77.3–80.5) 7,480,000 Less than monthly 13.3 (11.9–15.0) 9.3 (8.0–10.7) 12.2 (11.0–13.6) 13.0 (11.2–15.0) 10.1 (8.3–12.4) 9.2 (6.8–12.4) 11.4 (10.4–12.4) 1,070,000 Monthly 4.4 (3.6–5.3) 2.7 (2.2–3.4) 3.2 (2.6–3.9) 4.3 (3.2–5.7) 4.5 (3.4–6.0) 2.5 (1.5–4.1) 3.6 (3.0–4.2) 330,000 Weekly 4.2 (3.4–5.1) 3.0 (2.3–3.8) 3.3 (2.7–4.1) 3.7 (2.6–5.2) 4.2 (3.4–5.3) — 3.6 (3.1–4.1) 330,000 Daily 2.9 (2.1–3.8) 2.0 (1.4–2.9) 2.0 (1.4–2.8) 5.3 (3.3–8.5) 2.7 (1.9–4.0) — 2.5 (2.0–3.2) 230,000 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
*All respondents were asked, “How often do you use social media?” Response options included “never/I don’t use social media”; “less than one time per week”; “about one time per week”; “a few times per week”; “less than 1 hour, daily”; “about 1–2 hours, daily”; “about 3–4 hours, daily”; “4 hours or more, daily.” Subsequent questions on observance and engagement with e-cigarette content were assessed among those with nonmissing data who reported a response other than “never/I don’t use social media” (n = 16,960).
† Hispanic persons could be of any race.
§ Estimated weighted total number of students was rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report grade level.
§§ Assessed by the question, “When you use social media, how often have you liked, comments, or shared posts or content (pictures, videos, or text) related to e-cigarettes?” Top FIGURE 4.
Harm perceptions of intermittent use* of select tobacco products among middle and high school students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
Harm perceptions of intermittent use of other tobacco products were not assessed in the 2021 National Youth Tobacco Survey.
Top TABLE 11.
Urges to use tobacco products and quitting behaviors among middle and high school students who reported current (past 30-day) tobacco product use,* overall and by school level, sex, and race and ethnicity — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 Characteristic Past–30-day craving† Within 30 minutes of waking§ Thinking about quitting¶ Past-year quit attempt** % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users†† % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users % (95% CI) Estimated no.
of users Overall 27.2 (24.1–30.5) 620,000 19.5 (16.9–22.4) 440,000 65.3 (61.7–68.9) 1,320,000 60.2 (57.0–63.3) 1,200,000 Sex Male 22.1 (18.3–26.5) 240,000 19.8 (16.2–24.0) 220,000 61.8 (56.5–66.8) 630,000 57.6 (53.4–61.7) 590,000 Female 32.1 (27.6–37.0) 370,000 19.4 (15.6–23.8) 220,000 69.4 (64.8–73.6) 680,000 63.0 (58.7–67.1) 600,000 Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 30.7 (26.7–34.9) 440,000 21.5 (18.6–24.7) 310,000 66.6 (62.0–70.9) 870,000 59.8 (55.9–63.5) 770,000 Black, non-Hispanic 19.4 (13.5–27.1) 40,000 11.3 (6.4–19.2) 20,000 62.0 (52.3–70.8) 130,000 63.0 (53.4–71.6) 140,000 Hispanic§§ 22.0 (17.1–27.9) 90,000 17.1 (11.7–24.4) 70,000 65.6 (58.1–72.4) 240,000 61.3 (52.0–69.8) 210,000 Other, non-Hispanic 21.1 (13.0–32.3) 10,000 —¶¶ — 54.8 (34.4–73.8) 40,000 56.7 (35.9–75.4) 40,000 High school (Grades 9–12) 27.1 (23.5–31.0) 500,000 21.8 (18.8–25.1) 400,000 64.9 (60.3–69.1) 1,070,000 58.2 (54.5–61.8) 950,000 Sex Male 23.1 (18.6–28.2) 210,000 21.7 (17.7–26.4) 200,000 61.8 (55.2–68.0) 530,000 55.9 (51.4–60.3) 480,000 Female 31.4 (26.4–36.9) 280,000 22.1 (17.6–27.3) 200,000 68.7 (63.7–73.3) 540,000 60.7 (55.4–65.7) 460,000 Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 30.6 (26.2–35.5) 380,000 22.9 (19.7–26.3) 280,000 66.0 (60.8–70.8) 750,000 59.2 (55.0–63.2) 670,000 Black, non-Hispanic 20.0 (13.0–29.5) 30,000 14.1 (8.0–23.6) 20,000 59.6 (48.5–69.8) 100,000 57.4 (46.4–67.8) 90,000 Hispanic 17.7 (11.8–25.7) 50,000 20.4 (12.9–30.7) 50,000 65.4 (55.0–74.5) 160,000 57.6 (45.1–69.1) 130,000 Other, non-Hispanic — — — — — — — — Middle school (grades 6–8) 28.1 (22.6–34.3) 120,000 9.4 (6.5–13.4) 30,000 67.6 (60.2–74.3) 240,000 68.4 (63.1–73.2) 240,000 Sex Male 17.7 (12.2–25.0) 30,000 10.3 (6.2–16.7) 10,000 62.5 (52.6–71.4) 100,000 65.8 (57.3–73.4) 100,000 Female 35.6 (26.9–45.3) 80,000 8.8 (5.1–14.5) 20,000 71.6 (61.7–79.8) 130,000 71.6 (63.5–78.5) 130,000 Race and ethnicity White, non-Hispanic 31.4 (23.2–40.9) 50,000 12.9 (8.3–19.7) 20,000 70.2 (62.2–77.1) 110,000 63.3 (55.3–70.6) 100,000 Black, non-Hispanic — — — — 71.1 (50.4–85.6) 30,000 81.9 (69.8–89.8) 40,000 Hispanic 32.1 (22.7–43.3) 40,000 — — 67.1 (52.6–78.9) 70,000 67.7 (53.5–79.3) 70,000 Other, non-Hispanic — — — — — — — — Abbreviation: e-cigarettes = electronic cigarettes.
¶ Assessed by the question, “Are you seriously thinking about quitting the use of all tobacco products?” Response options were dichotomized as yes (“yes, during the next 30 days”; “yes, during the next 6 months”; “yes, during the next 12 months”; or “yes, but not during the next 12 months”) or no (“no, I am not thinking about quitting the use of all tobacco products”).
** Assessed by the question, “During the past 12 months, how many times have you stopped using all tobacco products for one day or longer because you were trying to quit all tobacco products for good?” Response options were dichotomized as yes (“1 time,” “2 times,” “3 to 5 times, “6 to 9 times,” or “10 or more times”) or no (“no, I did not try to quit all tobacco products during the past 12 months”).
†† Estimated weighted total numbers of users were rounded down to the nearest 10,000 persons.
Overall estimates might not directly total to sums of corresponding subgroup estimates because of rounding or inclusion of students who did not self-report sex, race and ethnicity, or grade level.
§§ Hispanic persons could be of any race.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Gentzke AS, Wang TW, Cornelius M, et al.
Tobacco Product Use and Associated Factors Among Middle and High School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2022;71(No.
SS-5):1–29.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Environmental Health EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone NCEH Divisions About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding 2024 Year in Review Projects VIEW ALL View All For Everyone APRIL 21, 2025 About The Division of Laboratory Sciences AT A GLANCE CDC's Division of Laboratory Sciences (DLS) enhances Americans' health by developing tests and using them to detect diseases and for chemical exposures.
We also assist labs in quality improvement and respond to health crises.
We collaborate with US government agencies, state and local health departments, academic institutions, community groups, philanthropy foundations, and international organizations.
Our mission Provide laboratory support that improves the detection, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of environmental, tobacco-related, nutritional, newborn, selected chronic, and selected infectious diseases.
Provide laboratory support that improves the rapid and accurate detection of chemical threats, radiologic threats, and selected toxins.
Spotlight 2023 Annual Report 2022 Annual Report Organizational Overview National Report on Selected Biochemical Indicators of Diet and Nutrition in the U.S.
Population National Report on Human Exposure to Environmental Chemicals Priorities The National Biomonitoring Program Provide laboratory science that improves the detection, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease resulting from exposure to environmental chemicals.
CDC's Second Nutrition Report Improve the laboratory detection and diagnosis of nutrition-related disease, cardiovascular disease, and other chronic diseases and provide laboratory support for influenza and selected infectious disease projects.
The Newborn Screening Laboratory Assure the early and accurate laboratory detection of treatable congenital disorders in newborns.
The Chemical Threats and Toxins Laboratory Provide effective laboratory support for the public health response to chemical threat agents and threats involving selected toxins.
The Radiologic Threat Agents Laboratory Provide effective laboratory support for the public health response to radiologic threat agents.
The Tobacco Laboratory Provide laboratory science that helps reduce individual and population exposure to addictive and toxic substances from tobacco products.
Laboratory Quality Programs Clinical Standardization Programs Clinical Standardization Programs improve the accuracy and reliability of laboratory tests for key chronic biomarkers.
Laboratory Quality Assurance Programs Laboratory Quality Assurance Programs help to ensure the quality of laboratory test results related to newborn screening disorders, nutritional status, and environmental exposures.
Features The Scientist Spotlight: Christina Fischer Diet Is a Factor in Contact with Glyphosate Keeping Babies Safe from Lead and Mercury Firefighters Need Protection Too Newborn Screening Is a Lifesaver Resources Improving the Collection and Management of Human Samples Used "for Measuring Environmental Chemicals and Nutrition Indicators Steps for Collecting Fingerstick Blood Samples in Micro-Vials for Lead Testing ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Features Resources RELATED PAGES NCEH Divisions About Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding VIEW ALL NCEH National Center for Environmental Health SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEH We work to prevent illness, disability, and death from contacts between people and the environment.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Environmental Health EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone NCEH Divisions About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding 2024 Year in Review Projects VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JANUARY 10, 2024 About Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice AT A GLANCE DEHSP prevents exposures to environmental health hazards to improve health in all communities through applied environmental public health science and practice.
What we do DEHSP’s mission is supported by surveillance, epidemiology, technical assistance, training, and preparedness activities.
The division provides critical environmental health support and funding for environmental health departments and other partners with similar missions.
Get connected Resource‎ Learn about the Environmental Health Nexus (EH Nexus)—DEHSP's communication network on environmental public health topics Organization DEHSP has five branches and one activity.
The Asthma and Air Quality Branch works to reduce asthma morbidity and mortality and nonoccupational human exposure to air pollutants, carbon monoxide, mold, and wildfires.
The Climate and Health Activity supports public health agencies as they prepare for the health impacts of a changing climate.
The Emerging Environmental Hazards and Health Effects Branch helps health departments respond to environmental public health events, natural disasters, and radiation exposures.
The branch also provides oversight to the U.S.
chemical weapons elimination program and expertise in epidemiology and medical toxicology to investigate outbreaks.
The Environmental Public Health Tracking Branch provides information from a nationwide network of integrated health and environmental data that drives actions to improve community health.
The Lead Poisoning Prevention and Surveillance Branch works to eliminate childhood lead poisoning as a public health problem.
The Water, Food, and Environmental Health Services Branch advances environmental public health practice to better serve and protect the health of all people in the United States.
Resources Air quality Asthma Asthma control program Carbon monoxide CASPER Chemical and radiological surveillance Chemical weapons elimination Childhood lead poisoning prevention Climate and health Disaster epidemiology and response Drought and health Environmental health practice Environmental health response and recovery Environmental health services Environmental health studies Environmental public health tracking Mold Restaurant food safety Radon and health Radiation and health Radiation emergencies Radiation emergency training Safe water Unusual patterns of cancer, the environment, and community concerns Vessel (cruise ship) sanitation ON THIS PAGE What we do Get connected Organization Resources RELATED PAGES NCEH Divisions About The Division of Laboratory Sciences About Us Strategic Framework Budget and Funding VIEW ALL NCEH About The Division of Laboratory Sciences SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCEH We work to prevent illness, disability, and death from contacts between people and the environment.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Nuevos datos de los CDC muestran que la prevalencia de la obesidad en adultos sigue siendo alta ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Para publicación inmediata: 12 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Nuevos datos de población de los CDC del 2023 muestran que en 23 estados más de uno de cada tres adultos (35 %) tiene obesidad.
Antes del 2013, ningún estado tenía una prevalencia de obesidad en adultos igual o superior al 35 %.
En la actualidad, al menos uno de cada cinco adultos (20 %) en cada estado de los Estados Unidos tiene obesidad.
"Estos nuevos datos resaltan la necesidad de opciones para la prevención y el tratamiento de la obesidad, que comienzan con la creación de comunidades más saludables donde personas de todas las edades tengan lugares seguros para la actividad física, y donde la atención médica y las opciones de alimentos saludables sean accesibles y asequibles para todos", dijo Karen Hacker, MD, MPH, directora del Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Enfermedades Crónicas y Promoción de la Salud de los CDC.
"La prevención de la obesidad a edades tempranas es crucial porque sabemos que los niños con obesidad a menudo se convierten en adultos con obesidad.
Esta es una de las razones por las que priorizamos las inversiones estatales y comunitarias de programas eficaces de cuidado infantil y peso saludable de la familia".
Los 23 estados con las tasas más altas de obesidad en adultos (35 % o más) incluyen: Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Carolina del Sur, Dakota del Norte, Dakota del Sur, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Luisiana, Michigan, Misisipi, Misuri, Nebraska, Nuevo México, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Virginia Occidental y Wisconsin.
Guam y Puerto Rico también tuvieron una tasa de obesidad de al menos 35 %.
La prevalencia estatal de la obesidad en adultos por raza, grupo étnico y ubicación usa datos autorreportados de altura y peso provenientes del Sistema de Vigilancia de Factores de Riesgo del Comportamiento (BRFSS, por sus siglas en inglés).
La obesidad afecta a algunos grupos de personas más que a otros.
Hay diferencias notables por raza y grupo étnico, como se muestra mediante datos combinados del BRFSS entre el 2021 y el 2023.
Los adultos asiáticos no tienen una prevalencia de obesidad igual o superior al 35 % en ningún estado (entre 37 estados, 1 territorio y el Distrito de Columbia).
En 16 estados, los adultos de raza blanca tienen una prevalencia de obesidad igual o superior al 35 % (entre 47 estados, 2 territorios y el Distrito de Columbia).
En 30 estados, los adultos indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativos de Alaska tienen una prevalencia de obesidad igual o superior al 35 % (entre 44 estados).
En 34 estados, los adultos hispanos tienen una prevalencia de obesidad igual o superior al 35 % (entre 47 estados, 3 territorios y el Distrito de Columbia).
En 38 estados, los adultos de raza negra tienen una prevalencia de obesidad igual o superior al 35 % (entre 46 estados, 1 territorio y el Distrito de Columbia).
"La obesidad es una enfermedad compleja.
Existe la idea errónea de que la obesidad es el resultado de la falta de fuerza de voluntad y de los fracasos personales de no alimentarse bien ni hacer ejercicio", dijo Ruth Petersen, MD, directora de la División de Nutrición, Actividad Física y Obesidad de los CDC.
"Muchos factores contribuyen a la obesidad, como los genes, ciertos medicamentos, problemas para dormir, el microbioma intestinal, el estrés, el acceso a alimentos asequibles, lugares seguros para realizar actividad física y a atención médica.
Comprender estos factores nos ayuda a identificar posibles estrategias de prevención y tratamiento", agregó.
Los CDC colaboran con comunidades, estados y tribus para ayudar a mejorar la salud y reducir la obesidad entre las poblaciones con el mayor riesgo, o carga, de enfermedades crónicas en todo el país.
Los CDC invierten en programas como SPAN, HOP y REACH para ayudar a aumentar el acceso a opciones de alimentos saludables, establecer lugares seguros y accesibles para la actividad física, y promover programas de prevención y tratamiento de la obesidad libres de estigma.
Estos programas proveen fondos a 17 estados, 50 organizaciones comunitarias y tribales, y 16 universidades designadas bajo las leyes Morrill Acts (land-grant universities).
El tratamiento de la obesidad también puede incluir medicamentos para la obesidad, como los de péptido similar al glucagón de tipo 1 (GLP-1) recientemente aprobados por la Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos (FDA) de los Estados Unidos, combinados con intervenciones de comportamiento saludable y de estilo de vida.
Un adulto con obesidad tiene un índice de masa corporal de 30 o más alto.
La obesidad es una enfermedad que puede causar muchas condiciones de salud, como asma, enfermedades cardiacas, accidentes cerebrovasculares, diabetes tipo 2, algunos tipos de cáncer y resultados graves de enfermedades respiratorias.
Además, el estigma y los prejuicios sobre el peso de una persona pueden tener consecuencias sociales y de salud mental, como ansiedad y una imagen corporal negativa.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Disminuye la cantidad de notificaciones de nuevos casos de personas enfermas; los CDC siguen investigando el brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes de la sección deli Los CDC otorgan más de $176 millones para reforzar la infraestructura y la fuerza laboral de salud pública Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El riesgo de suicidio está ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales Un nuevo informe de los CDC muestra el riesgo de suicidio ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales locales Los condados con los niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar tienen las tasas de suicidio más bajas VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El riesgo de suicidio está ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Unusual Patterns of Cancer, the Environment, and Community Concerns EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Contact Information VIEW ALL Public Health Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Resources and Tools VIEW ALL View All APRIL 12, 2024 About Unusual Patterns of Cancer KEY POINTS Given the frequency with which cancers are diagnosed, sometimes situations arise where an unusual number of cancers are diagnosed among people in a particular location.
Not all unusual patterns of cancer are cancer clusters.
Contact your state, tribal, local, or territorial health department or cancer registry if you think your community is experiencing more cancer than usual.
Overview Cancer is a group of diseases in which some of the body’s cells grow uncontrollably and spread to other parts of the body.
As a group, cancers are very common.
Given the frequency with which cancers are diagnosed, sometimes situations arise where an unusual number of cancers are diagnosed among people in a particular location.
These unusual numbers may be from chance, or they may result from the following: Different cancer screening practices Different access to health care, which may reflect other social and economic factors Genetic susceptibility to a particular cancer Behavioral risks and social determinants of health Occupational exposures Environmental exposures Many causes of cancer are unknown.
However, some environmental exposures have been shown to be related to the development of cancer in specific organs.
For example, if you are exposed to asbestos, you could develop mesothelioma.
Definitions Some unusual patterns of cancer are considered a cancer cluster.
A cancer cluster is defined as a greater than expected number of the same or etiologically related cancer cases that occurs within a group of people in a geographic area over a defined period of time.
Etiology refers to causes and risk factors associated with the development of disease.
For example, exposure to the sun can cause skin cancer.
The definition of a cancer cluster can be further explained as follows: A greater than expected number When the number of observed cases is greater than typically observed in a similar setting.
Of the same or etiologically related cancer cases Cases are of the same type, are within a family of tumors (for example Ewing's family of tumors ) or have a known or suggested link to the same specific environmental or chemical exposures.
It is possible to consider multiple cancer types when such a known exposure (for example, radiation or a specific chemical) is linked to more than one cancer type or when more than one contaminant or exposure type has been identified.
Within a group of people The population in which the cancer cases are occurring is defined by its demographic factors (for example, race/ethnicity, age, and sex).
In a geographic area The geographic area may be based upon pre-existing geopolitical boundaries (for example, census tract, county, or ZIP code/ZIP code tabulation area).
It may be defined according to the nature and extent of potential exposures that may cross multiple or partial boundaries.
For example, air pollution from a hazardous waste incinerator which may cross multiple counties or census tracts.
These geographic boundaries are used to determine the number of cancer cases as they relate to the total population in this predefined area.
It is possible to create or obscure a cluster inadvertently by modifying the area of interest.
Over a defined period of time The time frame used to establish the beginning and end dates for analysis.
The time period chosen for analysis will affect both the total cases observed and the calculation of the expected incidence of cancer in the population.
Keep in mind Not every unusual pattern of cancer will meet the above definition of a cancer cluster.
Unusual patterns of cancer that meet some of the criteria described above and also have plausible environmental concerns still warrant further evaluation or assessment by local or state health departments.
Reporting cancer concerns If you suspect your community or workplace may be experiencing more cases of cancer than expected, or if you'd like information such as cancer statistics or trends in your area, contact your state, tribal, local, or territorial health department or state/territory cancer registry.
A state, tribal, local, or territorial health department provides the first response to reports of unusual patterns of cancer.
For information about cancer in the workplace, please see the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health website.
Examining unusual patterns of cancer State, tribal, local, and territorial health departments, along with cancer registries, respond to questions about unusual patterns of cancer.
Usually, health departments start by gathering information about the unusual pattern of cancer, including the expected cancer rate, types of cancer, number of cases, and the age, sex, race, address, occupation, and age at diagnosis of the people with cancer.
CDC/ATSDR has created a decision-making tool that can be used by health departments for determining the need to further assess an unusual pattern of cancer.
The tool contains a set of criteria that can be used to assess the cancer(s) of concern and/or related environmental risk factors.
These criteria promote further assessment of unusual patterns of cancer.
Reducing your risk of developing cancer In general, cancers have a variety of risk factors related to behavioral, lifestyle, occupational, and environmental risks.
For many cancers, you can reduce your risk of developing cancer by adopting a healthy lifestyle that includes avoiding tobacco use, excessive alcohol consumption, and sun exposure; increasing physical activity; maintaining a recommended body weight; and eating a healthy and nutritious diet.
Taking advantage of cancer screening also will reduce your risk.
For more information about preventing cancer, visit the following websites CDC's Division of Cancer Prevention and Control The National Institutes of Health's National Cancer Institute American Cancer Society What CDC is doing The federal role in responding to unusual patterns of cancer is limited.
As needed, state, tribal, local, or territorial health departments may request technical assistance in response to unusual patterns of cancer from CDC/ATSDR.
CDC/ATSDR may provide technical recommendations and make referrals to the appropriate state, tribal, local, or territorial health department or cancer registry.
ATSDR is directed by congressional mandate to perform specific functions concerning the effect on public health of hazardous substances in the environment.
These functions include the following: Public health assessments of waste sites Health consultations concerning specific hazardous substances Health surveillance and registries Response to emergency releases of hazardous substances Applied research in support of public health assessments Information development and dissemination Education and training concerning hazardous substances Contact your state, tribal, local, or territorial health department or state/territory cancer registry for inquiries regarding unusual patterns of cancer being investigated in your community.
More information For more information about cancer in the workplace, visit the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health website.
The Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns provide more information on how unusual patterns of cancer are investigated.
For questions about unusual patterns of cancer in your community, reach out to your state, tribal, local, or territorial health department or cancer registry.
Contact Information ON THIS PAGE Overview Definitions Reporting cancer concerns Examining unusual patterns of cancer Reducing your risk of developing cancer What CDC is doing More information SOURCES PRINT SHARE Unusual Cancer Patterns Guidelines and resources for examining unusual patterns of cancer and environmental concerns.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Un nuevo informe de los CDC muestra el riesgo de suicidio ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales locales Los condados con los niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar tienen las tasas de suicidio más bajas DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 10 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Un nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC difundido hoy destaca el papel que pueden tener condiciones en los condados, como la cobertura de seguro médico, el acceso a Internet de banda ancha y los ingresos del hogar, en la reducción del riesgo de suicidio.
Comparadas con las de los condados con los niveles más bajos de estos factores, las tasas de suicidio fueron: 26 % más bajas en los condados con la cobertura de seguro médico más alta 44 % más bajas en los condados en que más casas tienen acceso a Internet de banda ancha 13 % más bajas en los condados con los ingresos del hogar más altos Estos hallazgos refuerzan otros estudios que muestran que las condiciones en que las personas nacen, crecen, viven, trabajan y envejecen pueden tener un papel importante al definir los esfuerzos de prevención del suicidio.
Las tasas de suicidio han aumentado durante los últimos 20 años y permanecen altas.
Trágicamente, más de 49 000 personas murieron por suicidio en el 2022, y los datos provisionales indican que una cantidad similar de personas murieron por suicidio en el 2023.
El suicidio es la segunda causa principal de muerte entre las personas de 10 a 34 años, y otros grupos continúan con tasas altas: personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativas de Alaska (27.1 por cada 100 000), hombres (23.0 por cada 100 000), residentes rurales (20.0 por cada 100 000) y personas de 45 a 64 años (19 por cada 100 000).
"Todas las muertes por suicidio son trágicas, dejan familias, amigos y comunidades devastadas", dijo la doctora Debra Houry, la funcionaria médica principal de los CDC.
“Cada día, los CDC invierten recursos en investigaciones y datos que ayudan a reducir el riesgo de suicidio.
Lo que aprendemos, lo ponemos en práctica mediante el diseño de programas que pueden salvar vidas y reducir el sufrimiento.
El informe de hoy se suma a nuestra siempre creciente base de conocimientos de los factores de riesgo del suicidio y contribuirá a la manera en que definamos esfuerzos futuros de prevención del suicidio.
Mi esperanza es que nuestro trabajo científico y los programas para prevenir suicidios lleven a que menos seres queridos queden atrás", agregó.
Este último informe de Signos Vitales también explora la asociación de estos tres factores con las tasas de suicidio en general, y cómo se ven estas relaciones en los grupos más afectados por el suicidio; todo esto para ayudar a fundamentar programas de prevención del suicidio en comunidades de todo el país.
AmpliarDescargar Los condados con niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha, y de ingresos, tienen tasas más bajas de suicidio Tasas de suicidio por cada 100 000 personas Cobertura de seguro médico Bajo 16 Medio 14 Alto 13 Acceso a Internet de banda ancha Bajo 19 Medio 16 Alto 13 Ingresos Bajo 15 Medio 15 Alto 13 Mostrar más La prevención del suicidio requiere múltiples intervenciones.
Este informe de Signos Vitales enfatiza la importancia de un enfoque integral para prevenir el suicidio, en primer lugar, y del apoyo para las personas en mayor riesgo.
La mejora de las condiciones en las comunidades puede incluir fortalecer la seguridad financiera del hogar, de manera que las personas puedan pagar por los alimentos, la vivienda y los gastos médicos; promover conexiones saludables a través de participación en la comunidad que genere redes sociales; y aumentar la disponibilidad de proveedores de atención médica, al igual que aumentar el acceso rápido y en forma remota a telemedicina, a servicios de salud mental y de intervención ante crisis, especialmente en las áreas desatendidas.
“Mejorar las condiciones donde las personas nacen, crecen, viven, trabajan y envejecen, a menudo es un aspecto de la prevención del suicidio que se pasa por alto.
Los programas de salud pública que mejoran las condiciones en las comunidades, como aquellos financiados por el Programa Integral de Prevención del Suicidio de los CDC, pueden ayudar a las personas a evitar llegar al punto de crisis”, dijo Alison Cammack, Ph.D., M.P.H., científica de salud y autora principal del informe.
Los CDC continúan tomando medidas para prevenir el suicidio mediante lo siguiente: Al proveer sistemas de datos, experiencia y conocimientos científicos y técnicos, gran colaboración, y fondos para departamentos de salud estatales, tribus y organizaciones tribales, territorios, instituciones académicas, así como otras coaliciones y organizaciones locales para ayudar a prevenir el suicidio.
Al financiar 28 programas por todo el país para realizar programas integrales de prevención del suicidio utilizando estrategias de comprobada eficacia del Recurso para la Acción de Prevención del Suicidio.
Estas estrategias se enfocan en las poblaciones más afectadas por el suicidio.
Al apoyar la respuesta rápida en las comunidades para investigar los aumentos inesperados de suicidios en un lugar en particular o durante cierto periodo.
Estos eventos, conocidos como conglomerados de suicidios, a menudo requieren asistencia de emergencia de los expertos de los CDC enviados rápidamente a estados, tribus y comunidades.
Todas las personas pueden ayudar a prevenir el suicidio al aprender los signos de advertencia, promover la prevención y resiliencia, y al comprometerse con el cambio social.
Esté atento a los signos de aumento en el riesgo de suicidio, como aislamiento, pérdidas de todo tipo, enfermedad mental y consumo de sustancias.
Actúe con estos cinco pasos para ayudar a salvar la vida de alguien que podría estar en estado suicida: Preguntar, estar presente, mantenerlos seguros, ayudarlos a conectarse y dar seguimiento.
Comparta recursos de los CDC y del sitio para el público de la Línea 988 de Prevención del Suicidio y Crisis .
Lea más acerca de lo que se puede hacer para reducir el suicidio en la reciente Estrategia Nacional para la Prevención del Suicidio y el Plan de Acción Federal que la acompaña.
### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El riesgo de suicidio está ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales TRANSCRIPCIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 10 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Tenga en cuenta: esta transcripción no está editada y puede tener errores.
Moderador 00:31 Gracias a todos ustedes por acompañarnos hoy cuando difundimos un nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC.
Nos acompañan la doctora Deborah Houry, subdirectora de programas y ciencias y funcionaria médica principal de los CDC, y la doctora Alison Cammack, autora principal y científica de salud del Equipo de Prevención del Suicidio de los CDC.
Luego de los comentarios de apertura, se nos unirá la doctora Deborah Stone, de los CDC, científica del comportamiento líder para programas de prevención del suicidio, quien responderá sus preguntas.
Tengan en cuenta que esta teleconferencia está embargada hasta la 1 p.
hora el este, cuando nuestro informe de Signos Vitales se publique en el sitio web de los CDC.
Ahora le pasaré la línea a la doctora Houry.
Debra Houry 01:11 Hola y gracias por acompañarnos hoy.
Esta edición de Signos Vitales de los CDC se enfoca en las tasas de suicidio en los Estados Unidos con un análisis profundo de cómo tres factores de la comunidad pueden influir en el riesgo de suicidio de una persona.
La publicación de hoy es especialmente oportuna porque septiembre es el Mes de Prevención del Suicidio y hoy es el Día Mundial de Prevención del Suicidio, un día en el que aumentamos la concientización y atención con respecto a este problema, enfatizando el mensaje de que el suicidio es prevenible.
A menudo, la prevención del suicidio se concentra en ayudar a las personas que están en crisis, pero aunque esto es crucialmente importante, el enfoque de los CDC para la prevención es aumentar los factores que promueven la resiliencia y reducir los factores que aumentan el riesgo de suicidio, para que las personas nunca lleguen a tener una crisis.
Este nuevo informe es un ejemplo del trabajo de los CDC y los esfuerzos de prevención del suicidio al explorar los factores de la comunidad que pueden mejorarse para ayudar a proteger a las personas contra el suicidio.
Nuestro estudio de Signos Vitales encontró que la cobertura de seguro médico, el acceso a Internet de banda ancha y los niveles de ingresos más altos podrían afectar el riesgo de suicidio.
El programa integral de prevención del suicidio de los CDC, que proporciona fondos a 28 sitios por todos los Estados Unidos, trabaja específicamente para mejorar las condiciones donde las personas nacen, crecen, viven, trabajan, y envejecen, para reducir el riesgo de suicidio.
Los CDC también otorgan fondos y apoyan a organizaciones que trabajan con tribus, veteranos y otros grupos para prevenir el suicidio.
Estudiemos un poco más este problema que parte el corazón.
Las tasas de suicidio han aumentado por los últimos 20 años y permanecen altas.
Más de 49 000 personas murieron por suicidio en el 2022, y los datos provisionales indican que una cantidad similar de personas murieron por suicidio en el 2023.
El suicidio y los intentos de suicidio también tienen graves efectos emocionales, físicos y económicos en las personas y las comunidades en donde viven.
Todos nosotros probablemente conocemos a alguien que ha luchado contra pensamientos suicidas; yo perdí a dos compañeros de la facultad de medicina debido al suicidio, y sé cómo esta crisis verdaderamente puede afectar a cualquier persona y a todas.
Algunos grupos tienen tasas de suicidio más altas que otros.
Por ejemplo, los hombres tienen tasas más altas de suicidio que las mujeres.
Las comunidades rurales tienen tasas más altas de suicidio que las urbanas, y las tasas más altas están entre las personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativas de Alaska no hispanas, seguidas por las personas de raza blanca no hispanas.
O sea que la conclusión es que el informe de Signos Vitales de hoy muestra una asociación entre la cobertura de seguro médico, el acceso a Internet de banda ancha y los ingresos del hogar, y los condados con las tasas de suicidio.
Ahora le paso la línea a la doctora Alison Cammack, la autora principal del estudio, para que nos hable de los hallazgos específicos de este informe.
Alison Cammack 04:14 Gracias, doctora Houry.
El informe de Signos Vitales de hoy describe cómo el nivel de los factores en el condado está relacionado con las tasas de suicidio del 2022 en los Estados Unidos.
Este nuevo informe encontró que las tasas de suicidio más bajas fueron en los condados con niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar.
Más específicamente, las tasas de suicidio fueron un 26 % más bajas en los condados donde la mayoría de las personas tienen cobertura de seguro médico en comparación con los condados que tienen la cobertura más baja de seguro médico.
En los condados donde la mayoría de los hogares tienen acceso a Internet de banda ancha, las tasas de suicidio fueron un 44 % más bajas que en aquellos donde tienen el acceso a Internet más bajo y, finalmente, las tasas de suicidio fueron un 13 % más bajas en los condados con el nivel de ingresos del hogar más alto en la comparación.
En los condados con los niveles más bajos de ingresos del hogar, estos factores estuvieron más estrechamente asociados con las tasas de suicidio en algunos grupos de personas, incluidas las personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativas de Alaska.
Las tasas de suicidio de las personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativas de Alaska en los condados con los porcentajes más altos de estos tres factores fueron la mitad de las tasas de los condados con el porcentaje más bajo de estos tres factores.
Puede haber muchas razones por las cuales los condados tienen tasas de suicidio más bajas cuando tienen niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos.
Sabemos que estos tres factores están vinculados a factores de protección que está demostrado que ayudan a reducir el riesgo de suicidio.
La cobertura de seguro médico puede ayudar a las personas a tener acceso a servicios de salud mental y de atención primaria, y a tratamiento.
El acceso a Internet de alta velocidad conecta a las personas a recursos de prevención, oportunidades de trabajo, servicios de telemedicina, y a amigos y familiares.
Los recursos económicos del hogar, como ingresos y apoyos económicos otorgados por los Gobiernos locales, estatales y federales pueden ayudar a las familias a obtener alimentos, vivienda y atención médica, y a satisfacer otras necesidades básicas.
Este informe también encontró que ciertos grupos de personas continúan teniendo altas tasas de suicidio, incluidos los hombres, residentes de áreas rurales, indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativos de Alaska y personas de raza blanca.
Es importante tener en cuenta que muchas barreras obstaculizan la capacidad de una persona para tener acceso a seguro médico, Internet de banda ancha e ingresos más altos.
Por ejemplo, las comunidades tribales y rurales podrían no tener la infraestructura para obtener acceso a Internet.
Es imperativo que nuestra nación trabaje hacia un enfoque integral de prevención del suicidio concentrado en programas, prácticas y políticas diseñadas para prevenir crisis de suicidio antes de que ocurran.
Y ahora le devuelvo la palabra a la doctora Houry para hablar sobre cómo podemos trabajar conjuntamente en un enfoque integral de prevención del suicidio.
Debra Houry 06:54 Gracias.
Doctora Cammack.
Con respecto a la prevención del suicidio, los CDC aportan sistemas de datos únicos e incomparables; experiencia y conocimientos científicos y técnicos; gran colaboración; y apoyo financiero.
Esto ayuda con fondos para programas en departamentos de salud estatales, tribus y organizaciones tribales, territorios, instituciones académicas, y otras coaliciones y organizaciones locales.
Por ejemplo, con este informe, los expertos de los CDC están proporcionando estos datos para fundamentar acciones.
Una mejor comprensión del riesgo de suicidio y de los factores de protección, especialmente en los grupos más afectados por suicidios, puede mejorar los esfuerzos de prevención y salvar más vidas.
Nosotros ofrecemos acciones de comprobada eficacia para comunidades y organizaciones, y nuestro Recurso para la Acción de Prevención del Suicidio, que ustedes pueden encontrar en el sitio web de los CDC.
Ejemplos de estas acciones incluyen promover conexiones saludables a través de programas escolares, así como programas que mejoren el acceso del hogar a seguridad económica.
Y nosotros incorporamos nuestro trabajo con la sólida base para el cambio positivo que ya existe, como las tradiciones, identidades culturales y conexiones con personas y organizaciones.
Los CDC codirigieron la creación de la Estrategia Nacional para la Prevención del Suicidio del 2024, la cual busca prevenir el riesgo de suicidio en primer lugar, al abordar factores subyacentes, como los descritos en el informe de Signos Vitales; identificar y ayudar a las personas en mayor riesgo mediante tratamiento e intervención ante crisis; prevenir que se repitan los intentos de suicidio; promover la recuperación a largo plazo y proporcionar apoyo a sobrevivientes que han perdido a seres queridos por suicidio.
Es importante que todas las personas reconozcan los signos de advertencia de un mayor riesgo de suicidio, como expresar desesperanza, aislarse, dormir muy poco o dormir mucho y mayor uso de sustancias.
Hay ayuda disponible si usted o alguien a quien conoce está luchando contra pensamientos de hacerse daño o pensamientos suicidas, pueden llamar a la Línea 988 o usar su chat de ayuda para casos de crisis.
La ayuda es gratuita, confidencial y está disponible las 24 horas del día, los 7 días de la semana.
Queremos ayudar a las personas que lo necesitan antes de que ocurra una crisis.
El suicidio es prevenible, y nosotros sabemos lo que funciona para evitarlo, y para evitar que familias y amigos pierdan a seres queridos.
Gracias por su tiempo de hoy.
Ahora abriré la línea para las preguntas.
Moderador 09:21 Gracias.
Estamos listos para las preguntas.
Operadora 09:25 Si desean hacer una pregunta por teléfono, por favor pulsen el asterisco y luego el uno.
Asegúrense de que su teléfono no esté silenciado y graben su nombre claramente cuando se les pida.
Por favor, limítense a una pregunta y otra de seguimiento.
Permítannos un momento para recibir las preguntas.
Operador 09:59 Aplauso.
Nuestra primera pregunta es de Mike Stobbe de Associated Press.
Su línea está abierta.
Mike Stobbe – Associated Press 10:16 Hola.
Gracias por realizar esta llamada y por aceptar mi pregunta.
Tengo 2, si fuera posible.
Una es, ¿podrían decirnos algo más acerca de los datos provisionales sobre suicidio del 2023, como, exactamente cuántas muertes por suicidio se registraron, y si hubo tendencias de aumento o reducción que fueron notables con respecto al método o los datos demográficos, o cualquier cosa diferente a años anteriores; y mi segunda pregunta era, acerca de este informe.
Es correcto que los hallazgos no fueron uniformes a través de todos los grupos demográficos, como los de las mujeres o entre las mujeres, o para las personas de raza negra con respecto a la cobertura de seguro médico.
¿Podrían hablarnos un poco más acerca de la uniformidad de hallazgos y por qué hubo diferencias?
Alison Cammack 11:13 Gracias.
Soy la doctora Cammack.
En cuanto a los datos provisionales, obtenemos nuestros datos provisionales y se actualizan semanalmente.
Y la última vez que revisé los del 2023 la cantidad fue 49 315, lo cual, como dijo la doctora Houry, es bastante similar a la cantidad que vimos el año pasado.
Aún no hemos examinado eso en detalle según tendencias, así que realmente no quiero hacer comentarios sobre eso.
Con respecto a su segunda pregunta sobre las diferencias que vimos entre grupos demográficos.
Sí, vimos algunas diferencias.
Lo más notable, vimos las asociaciones entre los distintos niveles de los factores en los condados y las tasas de suicidio.
Fueron más uniformes y fuertes entre las personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos, nativas de Alaska, los hombres, las personas de raza blanca, y las personas de edades desde los 25 hasta los 44 años; y podría haber varias razones diferentes para esto.
No sabemos la razón exacta, pero diré que sabemos por otros estudios que parece haber asociaciones más fuertes entre hombres y personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos/nativas de Alaska.
Cuando se analizan los factores económicos de manera más amplia y en términos de los grupos en los que no necesariamente vimos asociaciones fuertes, nuevamente, no conocemos la razón exacta, pero es posible que simplemente haya otros tipos de factores de riesgo que se destacan más en esos grupos.
Operador 12:32 Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Kirsten Dorman de KJZZ, NPR, su línea está abierta.
Kirsten Dorman – KJZZ, NPR Hola.
Muchas gracias de nuevo por recibirnos y gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Me preguntaba si podrían ofrecer más información sobre algún tipo de vínculo potencial observado entre, o cualquier tendencia notable con respecto al acceso a Internet de banda ancha y la prevención del suicidio.
Alison Cammack 13:05 Soy la doctora Cammack.
¿Me puede aclarar si solo quiere entender más acerca de por qué quizás vemos esta asociación?
Kirsten Dorman – KJZZ, NPR Claro, sí, y por qué se menciona en relación con, usted sabe, comunidades rurales y estos diferentes tipos de grupos demográficos.
Alison Cammack 13:19 OK.
Mencionamos la relevancia para diferentes grupos demográficos, porque sabemos que las comunidades rurales y las comunidades tribales, tienen menos acceso a Internet de banda ancha.
Por lo tanto, podría ser particularmente importante ver estas asociaciones dentro de estos grupos.
Y para reiterar mi punto anterior, encontramos especialmente en las personas indígenas de los Estados Unidos/nativas de Alaska, vimos los tres factores, incluido el acceso a Internet de banda ancha; vimos que tener niveles más altos de banda ancha estaba asociado con tasas más bajas de suicidio, o sea que fue particularmente sobresaliente en ese grupo.
Operador 13:53 Gracias.
Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Eben Brown de Fox News, su línea está abierta.
Eben Brown – Fox News 14:02 Les agradezco por tomar la llamada hoy.
Mi pregunta para quien quiera responder es, ¿cuáles serían los puntos de acción sobre estos hallazgos de datos?
¿Qué esperarían que hicieran los responsables de formular políticas?
Ha habido una serie de iniciativas para conectar el área rural de los Estados Unidos con Internet de alta velocidad, hacer lo mismo en territorios de indígenas nativos de los Estados Unidos, para proporcionar servicio de Internet subsidiado en áreas urbanas, rurales, disculpen, en áreas urbanas de bajos ingresos.
Por lo tanto, parece que hay muchas iniciativas tanto a nivel federal como estatal para abordar esa disparidad, y supongo que servicios, pero ustedes están agregando otra dimensión a esto, al decir que esto podría estar salvando vidas o quizás están diciendo que la falta del servicio está poniendo vidas en riesgo.
No estoy del todo seguro, ¿pero qué desearían que hiciera un legislador, ya sea a nivel estatal o del Congreso, con sus datos que tenemos aquí?
Debra Houry 15:05 Gracias.
Soy la Dra.
Houry, y esta es una pregunta realmente importante.
Diría que desarrollar programas y políticas que mejoren la estabilidad de la vivienda, la seguridad económica, la conexión con la comunidad, el acceso a Internet, y el acceso a atención médica son lo que este informe de Signos Vitales, y muchos de nuestros otros trabajos han mostrado, que estas son condiciones a nivel de la comunidad con políticas que pueden salvar vidas.
Moderador 15:34 Missy, tenemos tiempo para un par de preguntas más.
Operadora 15:36 La siguiente pregunta es de Eve Bender de Medscape Medical News, su línea está abierta.
Eve Bender - Medscape 15:43 Hola.
Gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Me pregunto si los CDC tienen una postura sobre las pruebas universales sobre el riesgo de suicidio.
Debra Houry 15:57 No tenemos una política al respecto.
Pero lo que diría es que, en general, esta es la razón por la que nos enfocamos en intervenciones a nivel de la comunidad, porque cualquier vida perdida es demasiado.
Nuestro trabajo realmente se enfoca en aquellos que están en riesgo de suicidio, para que podamos apoyar a esas personas para que obtengan servicios y realmente aumentar la concientización, que es una de las razones por las que tenemos este informe de Signos Vitales, y porque también creo que es importante cuando los medios de comunicación informan, realmente informar sobre las cosas que se deben buscar y cómo obtener atención, y sobre la Línea 988; porque creo que es tan importante tener la identificación de aquellas personas en riesgo de suicidio, como que informemos sobre la manera en que podemos responder al suicidio, para que no estemos teniendo conglomerados o, yo diría, haciéndolo más noticioso de lo que queremos.
Realmente queremos que las muertes por suicidio sean vistas seriamente como algo que se puede prevenir, que hay algo que se puede hacer, y que la gente sepa que es prevenible, y que hay esperanza y ayuda.
Así que ese es realmente nuestro enfoque, en intervenciones a nivel de la comunidad y enfocadas en aquellas personas en riesgo.
Moderador 17:09 Nuestra última pregunta por favor.
Operadora 17:10 Gracias.
Nuestra última pregunta es de Eduardo Cuevas de USA Today.
Su línea está abierta.
Eduardo Cuevas – USA Today 17:18 Hola.
Gracias por recibirnos.
Realmente aprecio el estudio.
Quería preguntar, al observar estos tres factores, el seguro médico, el Internet de banda ancha, los ingresos del hogar, tenía curiosidad por saber ¿cómo ven este estudio?
Al analizarlo, supongo, ¿cómo se ven quizás, los factores individuales en torno a alguien en crisis o alguien con enfermedad mental en comparación con los factores sociales que contribuyen a las muertes por suicidio?
Alison Cammack 17:54 Hola.
Esta en la doctora Cammack.
En este estudio, no nos enfocamos en ningún factor individual y, de hecho, no los examinamos más allá de observar los diferentes grupos demográficos.
Cuando observamos la relación entre los tres factores diferentes a nivel de condado y las tasas de suicidio, buscábamos, ya saben, diferencias en esa relación.
Pero no examinamos los factores individuales en sí mismos.
Debra Houry 18:18 Y yo soy la doctora Houry.
Creo que, solo quisiera añadir, no necesariamente en relación con esa pregunta, sino en general, que estos números son impactantes.
Una vida perdida es demasiado.
Y a veces puede parecer abrumador, como, ¿hay algo más que pudiéramos estar haciendo?
Y ciertamente, creo que enfocarse en este problema es muy importante.
Pero, sabemos qué hacer que funcione, y algunas de las cosas que estamos destacando en este informe de Signos Vitales hoy son lo que funciona; y estoy realmente orgullosa de nuestros programas de los CDC en las áreas para las que hemos tenido fondos.
Lo hemos visto en nuestros beneficiarios, hemos visto reducciones de un 6 % en las muertes por suicidio entre veteranos, cuando en realidad hubo un aumento en esta población; y vimos una reducción del suicidio entre los jóvenes atendidos por nuestros sitios de prevención del suicidio, cuando la tasa nacional disminuyó aproximadamente a la mitad.
Así que al hacer lo que funciona, podemos tener un impacto, y espero que ese sea el mensaje principal para llevar a casa: que todos podemos marcar la diferencia al implementar estos programas de prevención a nivel de la comunidad e identificar los signos de advertencia.
Todos podemos salvar una vida.
Moderador 19:23 Quisiéramos agradecerles a todos ustedes por acompañarnos hoy.
Si tienen alguna pregunta de seguimiento, por favor llamen a esta oficina de prensa principal al 404-639-3286 o envíen un email a media@cdc.gov.
Esto concluye nuestra llamada.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC otorgan más de $176 millones para reforzar la infraestructura y la fuerza laboral de salud pública Nuevos datos de los CDC muestran que la prevalencia de la obesidad en adultos sigue siendo alta Un nuevo informe de los CDC muestra el riesgo de suicidio ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales locales Los condados con los niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar tienen las tasas de suicidio más bajas Los CDC confirman caso en ser humano de la influenza aviar H5 en Misuri VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Un nuevo informe de los CDC muestra el riesgo de suicidio ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales locales Los condados con los niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar tienen las tasas de suicidio más bajas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
REACH EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About REACH REACH 2023–2028 REACH Program Impact REACH in Action REACH Lark Award Challenge Past REACH Programs REACH Publications VIEW ALL Related Topics: State and Local Programs | Family Healthy Weight Programs | Nutrition View All DECEMBER 6, 2023 About REACH KEY POINTS Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH) is a CDC-funded program to reduce racial and ethnic health disparities or gaps.
REACH program recipients plan and carry out local, culturally appropriate programs.
REACH programs use proven strategies to help improve health, prevent chronic diseases, and reduce health disparities.
Why it is important to end health gaps All people should be able to reach their full health potential.
However, health gaps exist among racial and ethnic minority groups.
These groups may have higher rates of disease, early death, and health care costs, and lower quality of life.
For example, from 2017 to March 2020, the rate of obesity was higher among Black (50%) and Hispanic (46%) adults than White adults (41%).
Also, diabetes prevalence was: 21% among Hispanic adults.
19% among Black adults.
18% among Asian adults.
12% among White adults.
Priorities REACH aims to improve health, prevent chronic diseases, and reduce health disparities among racial and ethnic populations with the highest risk, or burden, of chronic disease.
Such diseases include high blood pressure, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and obesity.
The program's goal is to make healthy eating and active living more accessible and affordable to priority populations.
REACH addresses health disparities using culturally appropriate programs designed for different racial and ethnic minority groups: African American or Black, Hispanic, Latino, Asian American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, American Indian, and Alaska Native.
Since 1999, REACH recipients have used community-based, participatory approaches to identify, develop, and share effective strategies for addressing health disparities.
See: REACH 2023 (current) Past REACH programs Accomplishments Reducing racial and ethnic health gaps is complex.
REACH recipients work with their partners to help remove barriers to health linked to race or ethnicity, education, income, location, or other social factors.
Read examples from: Society for Public Health Education: REACH Society for Public Health Education: REACH Urban Communities REACH Lark Award Winners: 2020 | 2022 | 2024 KEEP READING: REACH Program Impact How it's funded REACH awards funds state and local health departments, tribes, universities, and community-based organizations.
Recipients use these funds to build strong partnerships to guide and support the program's work.
Along with funding, CDC provides expert support to REACH recipients.
Resources Practitioner's Guide for Advancing Health Equity Minority Population Profiles , Office of Minority Health Health Equity Resources REACHing Across the Divide: Finding Solutions to Health Disparities Data, Trends, and Maps Chronic Disease Indicators Community Health Online Resource Center ON THIS PAGE Why it is important to end health gaps Priorities Accomplishments How it's funded Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE REACH CDC’s Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health program funds local efforts to improve health, prevent chronic diseases, and reduce health disparities.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
High Obesity Program (HOP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health High Obesity Program HOP Publications VIEW ALL Related Topics: Obesity | State and Local Programs | The Active Communities Tool View All High Obesity Program JAN.
13, 2025 KEY POINTS CDC funds 16 land grant universities to carry out the High Obesity Program (HOP).
The current 5-year program (CDC-RFA-DP-23-0013) runs from 2023 to 2028.
HOP supports policy, systems, and environmental changes to address health disparities related to nutrition, physical activity, and obesity.
HOP celebrates its 10th anniversary in 2024.
Background Celebrating 10 years Since 2014, CDC has awarded more than 40 cooperative agreements to land grant universities.
These institutions work through community extension services to make healthy eating and active living easier for all.
HOP helps to reduce health disparities in mostly rural counties with adult obesity rates greater than 40%.
The effort focuses on increasing access to healthy foods, designing safe and convenient places for physical activity, and reducing obesity.
CDC’s HOP is a 5-year cooperative agreement to fund 16 land-grant universities to work with community extension services.
HOP works in primarily rural areas where 40% or more of adults have obesity.
Approximately 1 in 5 U.S.
children and adolescents have obesity and more than 2 in 5 U.S.
adults have obesity.
Obesity costs the US healthcare system almost $173 billion a year.
The program's goal is to improve access to healthier foods and safe places for physical activity.
The universities work with state investments and resources.
Partners represent many professions, such as agriculture, transportation, education, health care, parks and recreation, business, housing, and defense and military.
The universities work with community extension services on evidence-based strategies for: Food and nutrition security through food service and nutrition guidelines and fruit and vegetable vouchers and produce prescriptions.
Increasing physical activity through community design.
Family healthy weight programs.
Early care and education settings.
View the original HOP funding opportunity announcement .
HOP recipients, fiscal year 2024 Download the FY2024 Recipient HOP map.
State HOP 2023 Recipient Counties Working In Alabama Auburn University (Auburn) Barbour, Bullock, Butler, Choctaw, Dallas, Escambia, Etowah, Greene, Hale, Marengo, Perry, Russell, Sumter, and Wilcox Arkansas University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service (Little Rock) Bradley, Crittenden, Desha, Drew, Hempstead, Logan, Monroe, Phillips, Poinsett, Pope, and St.
Francis Georgia University of Georgia (Athens) Calhoun, Clay, Dooly, Stewart, Taliaferro, Burke, Crisp, McDuffie, Richmond, Rockdale, Sumter, and Washington Iowa Iowa State University of Science and Technology (Ames) Cedar, Clinton, Crawford, Franklin, Muscatine, and Pottawattamie Louisiana Louisiana State University (Baton Rouge) Madison, Tensas, East Carroll, Morehouse, St.
Helena, Assumption, Catahoula, Claiborne, Winn, Washington, Terrebonne, and St.
Martin Mississippi Mississippi State University (Starkville) Bolivar, Chickasaw, Claiborne, Clay, Holmes, Humphries, Issaquena, Kemper, Noxubee, Sharkey, Sunflower, Washington, Webster, and Yazoo Missouri The Curators of University of Missouri (Columbia) New Madrid, Mississippi, Scott, Stoddard, Ripley, Wayne, Howell, Wright, Crawford, and Washington North Carolina North Carolina State University (Raleigh) Warren, Halifax, Northampton, Hertford, Bertie, Washington, Lenoir, Jones, Columbus, and Robeson Ohio The Ohio State University (Columbus) Lawrence and Fayette Oklahoma Oklahoma State University (Stillwater) Adair, LeFlore, Okfuskee, Lincoln, Craig, Okmulgee, Haskell, Muskogee, Kay, Nowata, and Sequoyah South Carolina Clemson University (Clemson) Marlboro, Dillon, Marion, Darlington, Florence, Lee, Orangeburg, Allendale, Bamberg, and Hampton South Dakota South Dakota State University (Brookings) Buffalo, Corson, Dewey, Mellette, Oglala Lakota, Todd, and Ziebach Tennessee The University of Tennessee (Knoxville) Clay, Crockett, Decatur, Hancock, Hardeman, Haywood, and Henderson Texas Texas A&M (College Station) Angelina, Cameron, Cherokee, Falls, Hidalgo, Houston, Maverick, Morris, Newton, San Augustine, Webb, Wharton, and Wilbarger West Virginia West Virginia University (Morgantown) Braxton, Boone, Calhoun, Clay, Fayette, Lincoln, Logan, Mingo, Monroe, and Summers Wisconsin University of Wisconsin (Madison) Ashland and Menominee Get involved Follow us on Facebook and X.
Use the following hashtags in your own social media:  – highlight the need for healthy communities.
ON THIS PAGE Background HOP recipients, fiscal year 2024 Get involved SOURCES PRINT SHARE High Obesity Program (HOP) HOP supports policy, systems, and environmental changes to address health disparities related to nutrition, physical activity, and obesity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Unusual Patterns of Cancer, the Environment, and Community Concerns EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Contact Information VIEW ALL Public Health Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Resources and Tools VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 12, 2024 Guidelines Summary KEY POINTS The revised guidelines update the 2013 publication, Investigating Suspected Cancer Clusters and Responding to Community Concerns: Guidelines from the CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE).
The summary highlights how the revised guidelines expand and add to the previous guidelines.
Authors Stephanie L.
Foster, M.P.H.,1,2 Amy M.
Lavery, Ph.D.,1 Suzanne K.
Condon, M.S.M.,3 Alisha A.
Etheredge, M.P.H.,1 Brian S.
Kennedy, M.P.P.,1 Erik R.
Svendsen, Ph.D., 1 Patrick Breysse, Ph.D.3 1Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice, National Center for Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2Office of Innovations and Analytics, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry 3Office of the Director, National Center for Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH), and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) provide scientific guidance to state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) health departments related to environmental health concerns.
The guidelines presented here update the 2013 publication, Investigating Suspected Cancer Clusters and Responding to Community Concerns: Guidelines from the CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE).1 In general, STLT health departments play the primary role in examining unusual patterns of cancer in communities, including those associated with local environmental concerns.
These guidelines expand the approach for these investigations.
Occupation-related clusters are not included in these guidelines.
Notable enhancements to the previous guidelines (referred to hereafter as the 2013 Guidelines) include the following: Expanding the name of the guidance document to include examining patterns of cancer and environmental concerns Revising the definition of a cancer cluster and introducing the concept of "unusual patterns of cancer" to describe situations that may warrant further assessment Including specific and standardized approaches to better engage community advocates Providing a standardized template to better document the nature and extent of cancer and environmental concerns Updating approaches to identify and investigate unusual patterns of cancer, including the suggestion for proactive evaluation and routine monitoring Suggesting what information to share with CDC/ATSDR Enhanced appendices describing statistical and geospatial methods supporting the evaluation of unusual patterns of cancer While the revised guidance includes new methods to better engage with community members and advocates, statistical and other scientific challenges may make it difficult to directly associate factors that may play a role in the cause(s) of unusual patterns of cancer.
Although limitations and challenges remain, the revised guidelines propose an approach to identifying and investigating unusual patterns of cancer as part of routine surveillance activities as well as new criteria and decision trees for responding to cancer and environmental concerns.
ON THIS PAGE Authors Summary RELATED PAGES Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Methods Cancer Characteristics, Definitions, and Recent Investigations Proactive Evaluation and Routine Monitoring of Cancer Data Responding to Community Concerns about Unusual Patterns of Cancer Phase 1: Initiating Lines of Communication VIEW ALL Unusual Cancer Patterns Methods SOURCES PRINT SHARE Unusual Cancer Patterns Guidelines and resources for examining unusual patterns of cancer and environmental concerns.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Los CDC advierten sobre el retiro del mercado de huevos vendidos en Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin, vinculados a un brote de Salmonella ENGLISH (US) AVISO ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 6 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Los CDC han publicado una alerta de seguridad de los alimentos, relacionada con un brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a huevos:  Puntos clave: 65 personas en 9 estados se han enfermado por la misma cepa de Salmonella.
Entre los 9 estados están los 3 estados donde se vendieron los huevos (Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin), además de California, Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota, Utah y Virginia.
La mayoría de las personas enfermas son de Wisconsin (42) o Illinois (11).
24 personas han sido hospitalizadas y no se han notificado muertes.
Este brote podría ser difícil de tratar con algunos de los antibióticos recomendados comúnmente, y es posible que se deba optar por antibióticos diferentes para las personas que los necesiten.
Las pruebas de laboratorio mostraron que las bacterias Salmonella que están enfermando a las personas son resistentes al ácido nalidíxico y la ciprofloxacina.
Esto podría hacer que los casos de enfermedad en este brote sean difíciles de tratar con algunos de los antibióticos recomendados comúnmente, y es posible que se deba optar por antibióticos diferentes para las personas que los necesiten.
Los datos muestran que los huevos abastecidos por Milo's Poultry Farms, LLC, están contaminados por Salmonella y están enfermando a las personas.
La Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos (FDA) hizo una inspección en Milo's Poultry Farms y recolectó muestras.
Los análisis de la FDA mostraron que se encontró la cepa de Salmonella del brote en las instalaciones de empaque y en el espacio donde las gallinas ponen los huevos.
Milo's Poultry Farms, LLC, retiró del mercado los huevos el 6 de septiembre.
Los huevos retirados del mercado se vendieron en tiendas y restaurantes en Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin, y tenían etiquetas que decían "Milo's Poultry Farms" o "Tony's Fresh Market".
Se han retirado del mercado todos estos tipos de huevos, independientemente de su tamaño o fecha de vencimiento.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma ningún tipo de huevo retirado del mercado.
Bótelos o devuélvalos al sitio donde los compró.
Lave las superficies y los artículos que hayan podido estar en contacto con los huevos retirados del mercado utilizando agua jabonosa caliente o un lavaplatos automático.
Síntomas de la infección por Salmonella La mayoría de las personas con infección por Salmonella presentan diarrea, fiebre y cólicos estomacales.
Los síntomas generalmente aparecen entre 6 horas y 6 días después de tragar las bacterias.
La mayoría de las personas se recuperan dentro de 4 a 7 días, sin tratamiento.
Algunas personas —especialmente los niños menores de 5 años, los adultos de 65 años o mayores y las personas con el sistema inmunitario debilitado— podrían enfermarse más gravemente y necesitar tratamiento médico u hospitalización.
Para obtener más información sobre la Salmonella, consulte la página de preguntas y respuestas sobre la Salmonella.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Gracias, Subdivisión de Medios de Prensa de los CDC 404-639-3286 media@cdc.gov ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Los CDC confirman caso en ser humano de la influenza aviar H5 en Misuri DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Para publicación inmediata: 6 de septiembre del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Septiembre 6, 2024.
Los CDC confirmaron un caso en ser humano de la influenza aviar A(H5) ("influenza aviar H5") notificado por el estado de Misuri.
El caso se identificó a través del sistema de vigilancia de la influenza (gripe) estacional de ese estado.
La muestra se envió a los CDC para las pruebas confirmatorias según los protocolos usuales y el caso se confirmó ayer.
Hay una investigación en curso sobre la posible exposición por parte del Departamento de Salud y Servicios para Personas Mayores de Misuri (DHSS).
Información sobre el caso El Departamento de Salud y Servicios para Personas Mayores de Misuri informa que el paciente, que fue hospitalizado, tenía condiciones médicas subyacentes, fue tratado con medicamentos antivirales contra la influenza, posteriormente se le dio de alta y se ha recuperado.
No se tiene conocimiento de que haya habido exposición animal inmediata.
No se ha identificado transmisión en curso entre los contactos cercanos ni de otro tipo.
Este es el 14.o caso en seres humanos de influenza aviar H5 notificado en los Estados Unidos durante el 2024 y el primero sin una exposición ocupacional a animales enfermos o infectados conocida.
No se han notificado brotes de influenza aviar H5 en ganado vacuno en Misuri, pero sí se han notificado brotes de esta enfermedad en aves de corral comerciales y domésticas en el 2024.
La influenza aviar H5N1 se había detectado en aves silvestres en este estado en el pasado.
Aunque a través del sistema nacional de vigilancia de la influenza se han detectado otros casos de influenza por virus nuevos, esta es la primera vez que el sistema ha detectado un caso de la influenza aviar H5.
La vigilancia dirigida específica para brotes de la influenza aviar H5 que se ha realizado como parte de la respuesta a los brotes en curso en animales ha identificado todos los otros casos.
En este caso, la muestra del paciente inicialmente dio positivo para el virus de la influenza A, pero dio negativo para los subtipos del virus A de la influenza estacional.
Ese hallazgo desencadena pruebas adicionales.
Los CDC continúan monitoreando de cerca los datos disponibles de los sistemas de vigilancia de la influenza, particularmente en los estados afectados, y no ha habido signos de actividad inusual de la influenza en las personas, incluso en Misuri.
La identificación de la neuraminidasa (la "N") en la muestra del paciente dependerá de secuenciaciones adicionales pendientes.
En los CDC también se está tratando de obtener la secuencia del genoma del virus.
Con base en datos disponibles, la estimación actual de los CDC es que el riesgo de la influenza aviar H5N1 para el público en general sigue siendo bajo.
Las recomendaciones de los CDC relacionadas con el virus H5 no han cambiado en este momento.
Como siempre, las circunstancias podrían cambiar rápidamente a medida que se conozca más información.
Los resultados de esta investigación serán especialmente importantes a la luz de la actual falta de una exposición animal obvia.
Es importante tener en cuenta que, aunque es raro, ha habido casos de infección por un virus de la influenza A nuevo, en los que no se ha podido identificar una fuente animal.
La principal preocupación en estas situaciones es que no esté ocurriendo una transmisión posterior.
Los hallazgos de la investigación en curso serán la base para hacer o no cambios en las directrices.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El riesgo de suicidio está ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales Un nuevo informe de los CDC muestra el riesgo de suicidio ligado a las condiciones económicas y sociales locales Los condados con los niveles más altos de cobertura de seguro médico, de acceso a Internet de banda ancha y de ingresos del hogar tienen las tasas de suicidio más bajas Los CDC advierten sobre el retiro del mercado de huevos vendidos en Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin, vinculados a un brote de Salmonella El uso de cigarrillos electrónicos en los jóvenes cae a su nivel más bajo en una década VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Los CDC advierten sobre el retiro del mercado de huevos vendidos en Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin, vinculados a un brote de Salmonella FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Chronic Disease Indicators Search Chronic Disease Indicators Print View new releases as of March 2024 here!
Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) The Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) tool provides national and state estimates for a set of key surveillance indicators of chronic diseases and their risk factors.
Where applicable, estimates are broken down by sex, race and ethnicity, and age group.
This information can help guide evidence-based decision-making and development of focused activities, programs, and policies designed to improve population health.
Data are available in the form of maps, bar graphs, line graphs, and tables, or through the CDI Data Portal.
Learn more About CDI.
View Maps View maps of the US for any indicator, year, and group (sex, race and ethnicity, age).
Location All states, DC, and territories Topic Select Topic View Bar Graphs View bar graphs for national or state estimates for any indicator, year, and group (sex, race and ethnicity, and age).
Location Select a location Topic Select a Topic View Trends Over Time View trend lines for national or state estimates for any indicator, year, and group (by sex, race and ethnicity, and age).
Location Select a location Topic Select a Topic Access the Data Portal Need to work with CDI data directly?
Go to the Chronic Disease Indicators Data Portal to create a filtered CDI dataset, create customized graphics, or download CDI data.
Comparison Report View a report that contains all indicators for the locations of your choice.
Indicator Definitions Select a topic area to view an indicator definition.
Select Topic Alcohol Arthritis Asthma Cancer Cardiovascular Disease Chronic Kidney Disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Cognitive Health and Caregiving Diabetes Disability Health Status Immunization Maternal Health Mental Health Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Weight Status Older Adults Oral Health Sleep Social Determinants of Health Student Health Tobacco Help is available!
FAQs and how-to guides.
About the CDI View information about the CDI.
Data Sources View information about the data sources.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Unusual Patterns of Cancer, the Environment, and Community Concerns EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Contact Information VIEW ALL Public Health Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Resources and Tools VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 12, 2024 Phased Approach to Respond to Community Inquiries: Phase 1 Initiating lines of communication KEY POINTS Use the Cancer Inquiry Intake Form to collect standardized data on inquiries about cancer and environmental concerns.
Establish points of contact at the health agency and within the community for successful engagement.
Consider establishing a team to help address concerns about unusual patterns of cancer prior to receiving inquiries.
Overview A phased approach to communicating with and engaging communities will help with the following: Initiating lines of communication with the inquirer and community members Examining data and criteria aimed at evaluating the occurrence of cancer Exploring further epidemiologic studies Information about the phased approach is provided in the sections below, and additional details can be found in the Appendices.
Phase 1: Initiating lines of communication The following section describes the information to collect (from the inquirer) and evaluate (using a decision-making template and other information).
Record the inquirer's information in a standard intake form to log when a call or email is first received.
The intake form helps document if this is the first time the person is calling, if the geographic area or cancer(s) of concern has been mentioned previously, and if there are multiple people raising concerns about the same geographic area or cancer type(s).
The Cancer Inquiry Intake Form, can be used to gather the following key information: Inquirer information: Name, residential address, email address, telephone number, length of residence at current location, and organization affiliation (if any) Inquirer information about the patterns of cancer: Types of cancer and number of cases of each type, age at diagnosis of people with cancer, geographic area of concern, time period over which cancers were diagnosed, and how the inquirer learned about concerns about cancer patterns Other information: Any specific environmental concerns, other risk factors (e.g., occupation, behavioral risk factors, and family history of cancer), concerns in the affected area (e.g., the likely period of environmental contaminant exposures) Important reminders: If the inquirer requests anonymity, you should comply.
But explain that the inability to follow up with the caller might hinder further investigation.
Keep in mind that the inquirer might not have information to differentiate between primary site and metastatic cancers and will most likely not be aware of all cases of cancer in the area or during the time frame of concern.
The Cancer Inquiry Intake Form is available upon request under the forms section of the Resources and Tools webpage.
Work with the inquirer to fully understand their range of concerns.
In many cases the concerns associated with cancer may be prompted by other factors that warrant separate and/or related follow up (e.g., the presence of environmental hazards within a neighborhood or community).
States may elect to share information from the form (excluding personally identifiable information) with NCEH's Health Studies Section.
Sharing this information may allow for evaluation of any potential regional or national trends requiring follow up and may allow federal officials to report the number of community cancer inquiries occurring nationally.
Establish points of contact For successful engagement it is important to establish points of contact at the health agency (agency point of contact, aPOC) and within the community (community point of contact, cPOC).
CDC/ASTDR recommends the following when engaging with a cPOC: Establish the communication process (e.g., email, phone contact, or some other communication channel) as well as the time frame for future contact.
Determine the primary cPOC and gather that individual's contact information.
The cPOC may be the inquirer.
Alternatively, another individual(s) identified by the inquirer may serve as the cPOC if they are viewed as a trusted representative of the inquirer and/or the community.
The aPOC should have strong empathy skills and experience in cancer epidemiology and/or experience in environmental science.
It is the responsibility of the aPOC to: Provide an estimated timeline of when the aPOC will re-contact the inquirer/cPOC.
Listen to the inquirer and ask questions.
Don't dismiss the inquiry before gathering information.
Log and record all actions taken regarding the inquiry.
Relay information about what is being done about the inquiry to the inquirer.
This communication should be open, transparent, and thorough.
CDC/ATSDR further encourages establishing a team of colleagues to help address concerns over cancer patterns prior to receiving inquiries.
The aPOC can facilitate the creation of a team by: Reaching out to collaborators to plan initial discussions about the cancer inquiry.
Collaborators could include other staff members within the health department (i.e., chronic disease and cancer control program personnel, environmental health practitioners, cancer registry workers, health educators, and geospatial specialists) and potentially other health agencies such as local health jurisdictions, tribal health agencies, etc.
Reaching out to the state environmental regulatory agency if the inquiry is primarily regarding an environmental contaminant.
Requesting technical assistance, if necessary.
The following groups may provide or help coordinate technical assistance: CDC/NCEH Health Studies Section ATSDR Office of Community Health Hazard Assessment, including regional staff members Regional Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Units (PEHSUs) As mentioned in the proactive evaluation section, a similar approach can be considered when deciding to move to Phase 2.
Phase 2 is meant to build on the information gathered in Phase 1.
Oftentimes interactions with the community will end with providing educational materials about risk factors for the cancer(s) of concern or information about the occurrence of the cancer(s) in the community.
Pre-developed materials or review of data from cancer registries or on the Tracking Network Data Explorer can help provide guidance and education for the specific request and can help determine the need for continued assessment.
However, some situations may suggest the need for further evaluation.
Methods for reviewing data are further described in Phase 2.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Phase 1: Initiating lines of communication Establish points of contact RELATED PAGES Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Proactive Evaluation and Routine Monitoring of Cancer Data Responding to Community Concerns about Unusual Patterns of Cancer Phase 2: Criteria to Determine Continued Assessment of a Report Phase 3: Considerations for Epidemiologic Studies VIEW ALL Unusual Cancer Patterns Phase 2: Criteria to Determine Continued Assessment of a Report SOURCES PRINT SHARE Unusual Cancer Patterns Guidelines and resources for examining unusual patterns of cancer and environmental concerns.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo El aumento en los casos de enfermedad y muertes en el brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes frías es un recordatorio de evitar los productos retirados del mercado ENGLISH (US) ALERTA PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACION Para publicación inmediata: 28 de agosto del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov Los CDC han publicado una actualización de una alerta sobre la seguridad de los alimentos con respecto a un brote multiestatal de infecciones por Listeria monocytogenes en 
Puntos clave: Desde la última actualización del 8 de agosto del 2024, se han notificado otros 14 casos de enfermedad, lo cual aumenta el total a 57.
Las 57 personas fueron hospitalizadas, y se han notificado ahora 9 muertes.
Las 6 muertes nuevas incluyen una en Florida, una en Tennessee, una en Nuevo México, una en Nueva York y dos en Carolina del Sur.
Este es el mayor brote de listeriosis desde el brote del 2011 vinculado a melones.
Todos deben revisar sus casas para ver si quedan restos de los productos de Boar's Head retirados del mercado, ya que pueden tener una vida útil larga.
Busque los códigos "EST.
12612" o "P-12612" dentro del sello de inspección del USDA en las etiquetas de los productos.
Algunos de los productos tienen fechas límite de venta que llegan hasta octubre del 2024.
Los microbios Listeria son resistentes y pueden permanecer en las superficies, como en las cortadoras de carne, y en los alimentos, incluso a las temperaturas de refrigeración.
También puede tomar hasta 10 semanas para que algunas personas presenten los síntomas de la listeriosis.
Lo que debe hacer: No coma productos de la sección deli retirados del mercado .
Deséchelos o comuníquese con las tiendas para devolverlos.
Las personas que tienen mayor riesgo de enfermarse por Listeria —como las que están embarazadas, las que tienen 65 años o más, o las que tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado— siempre deben evitar comer carnes frías cortadas en los mostradores de la sección deli, a menos que las calienten hasta que alcancen una temperatura interna de 165 °F o hasta que les salga vapor justo antes de servirlas.
Limpie su refrigerador, los recipientes y las superficies que puedan haber estado en contacto con carnes frías cortadas en la sección deli.
Llame a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene síntomas de infección por Listeria y recientemente comió carnes frías cortadas en los mostradores de la sección deli.
Los negocios que recibieron carnes frías retiradas del mercado deberían tomar precauciones adicionales, como limpiar, higienizar y desechar las carnes frías y los quesos de la sección deli cortados y abiertos.
Los negocios deberían también seguir las mejores prácticas del Servicio de Inocuidad e Inspección de los Alimentos del Departamento de Agricultura de los EE.
(USDA-FSIS) para controlar la contaminación por Listeria en áreas deli.
Acerca de la Listeria: La Listeria puede causar una enfermedad grave (conocida como listeriosis invasiva) cuando las bacterias se propagan más allá de los intestinos a otras partes del cuerpo.
Las personas embarazadas generalmente solo presentan fiebre, fatiga y dolores musculares.
Sin embargo, las infecciones por Listeria durante el embarazo pueden causar aborto espontáneo, muerte fetal, parto prematuro, o infecciones potencialmente mortales en el recién nacido.
Las personas que no están embarazadas podrían presentar dolor de cabeza, rigidez en el cuello, confusión, pérdida del equilibrio y convulsiones, además de fiebre y dolores musculares.
Los síntomas de enfermedad grave por lo general aparecen de 1 a 4 semanas después de haber comido el alimento contaminado de Listeria, pero podrían aparecer tan pronto como el mismo día o tan tarde como 70 días después.
Si tiene preguntas acerca de los casos en un estado en particular, llame al departamento de salud de ese estado.
Subdivisión de Apoyo a los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC 404-639-3286 Media@cdc.gov PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos Los CDC advierten sobre el retiro del mercado de huevos vendidos en Illinois, Michigan y Wisconsin, vinculados a un brote de Salmonella El uso de cigarrillos electrónicos en los jóvenes cae a su nivel más bajo en una década La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar HOJA INFORMATIVA: Respuesta de los Estados Unidos al brote del clado I de la viruela símica (mpox) en varios países africanos VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Salmonella Infection (Salmonellosis) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Outbreaks How It Spreads Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Public Health Salmonella Surveillance Specimen Submission Training REP Strain Notices Publications VIEW ALL View All OCTOBER 4, 2024 About Salmonella Infection KEY POINTS Salmonella are bacteria (germs) that can make people sick People can get infected with Salmonella after swallowing the bacteria.
CDC estimates Salmonella cause about 1.35 million infections in the United States every year.
Contaminated food is the source for most of these illnesses.
Overview Salmonella are bacteria (germs) that can make people sick with an illness called salmonellosis.
People can get infected after swallowing Salmonella.
Salmonella live in the intestines of people and animals.
People can get infected with Salmonella in many ways, including Eating contaminated food Drinking or having contact with contaminated water Touching animals, animal poop, and the places animals live and roam Types Although scientists have identified more than 2,500 Salmonella serotypes (types), fewer than 100 types cause most human illness.
Reminder‎ This website focuses on the types of Salmonella that cause diarrhea.
Visit the typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever website to learn about the types of Salmonella that cause those illnesses.
People at risk Anyone can get a Salmonella infection.
But some groups of people have an increased chance of infection, and some people may become seriously ill.
These groups include: Children who are younger than 5 years (and especially children who are younger than 1 year) Adults who are 50 years and older with underlying medical problems, such as heart disease Adults who are 65 and older People who have a weakened immune system International travelers Quick facts Salmonella are a leading cause of foodborne illness, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States and worldwide.
Salmonella are one of the leading causes of foodborne illnesses.
Salmonella also are the leading cause of hospitalizations and deaths linked to foodborne illness.
Spotlight on chicken‎ Chicken is a major source of Salmonella infection.
In fact, more than 1 in every 25 packages of chicken at the grocery store is contaminated with Salmonella.
Chicken and food poisoning Infection is more common in the summer.
Warmer weather and unrefrigerated foods create ideal conditions for Salmonella to grow.
Promptly refrigerate or freeze perishables (foods likely to spoil or go bad quickly), prepared foods, and leftovers.
KEEP READING: Preventing Salmonella Infection Salmonella cause more infections than you might suspect.
CDC estimates that only 1 in every 30 Salmonella infections is diagnosed.
Most people with food poisoning do not go to a doctor or have a patient sample submitted for laboratory testing.
So, we never learn which germ made them sick.
Antimicrobial-resistant Salmonella infections are becoming more common.
Antimicrobial resistance in Salmonella happens when the bacteria develop the ability to defeat the drugs designed to kill them.
That means the bacteria are not killed and continue to grow.
Resistance to antibiotics is increasing in Salmonella, which can limit treatment options for people with severe infections.
One way to slow down the development of antimicrobial resistance is by appropriate use of antibiotics in people and animals.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Types People at risk Quick facts SOURCES PRINT SHARE Salmonella Infection Salmonella bacteria (germs) are a leading cause of foodborne illness in the United States.
Learn about symptoms, treatment, and prevention of infection.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Chronic Disease Indicators EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Overview Indicator Definitions CDI Help Topics VIEW ALL Related Topics: Chronic Disease Indicators Tool View All JUNE 11, 2024 Indicator Data Sources PURPOSE Listing of additional data sources used by the Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) Application.
Data sources Expand All ACS - American Community Survey AEDS - Alcohol Epidemiologic Data System ANRF - American NonSmokers' Rights Foundation BRFSS - Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System CMS Part A Claims Data - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Part A Claims Data CPS-FSS - Current Population Survey Food Security Supplement NIS - National Immunization Survey NSCH - National Survey of Children's Health NVSS - National Vital Statistics System PRAMS - Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System US Cancer DVT - U.S.
Cancer Statistics Data Visualizations Tool USRDS - United States Renal Data System WIC PC - Women, Infants, and Children Participant and Program Characteristics Study YRBS - Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System SOURCES PRINT SHARE Chronic Disease Indicators Key surveillance indicators of chronic diseases and their risk factors.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Chronic Disease Indicators EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Overview Indicator Definitions CDI Help Topics VIEW ALL Related Topics: Chronic Disease Indicators Tool View All JUNE 6, 2024 CDI Help Topics KEY POINTS CDI provides valuable surveillance data that public health professionals, researchers, and policymakers can use to track chronic diseases and their risk factors at the national and state level.
It uses standardized definitions to allow comparisons at national and state levels.
The Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) home page The CDI home page is the entry point into the system.
Use this page to select information to view and also to select the format to use for visualizing the data.
View Larger Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) home page View data on a map The map allows you to view one indicator across all available locations.
To view data on a map: on the home page under view maps, select a topic and click go.
The system displays a page for selecting an indicator to view in the map.
Note: When viewing data on a map, the system allows you to select only one indicator.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - map view Select one indicator and click view results.
The system displays the results in map format.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - view results View data in graph format The map allows you to view one indicator across all available locations.
To view data in bar graph format: on the home page under view bar graphs, select a topic, select a location, and click go.
The system displays a page for selecting indicators to view in the graph.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - graph format Select at least one indicator and click view results.
The system displays the results in graph format.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - graph results Stratifying data To stratify the data being viewed, select the options for stratifying the data, i.e., year, view by, or data type, and click update.
After the data is displayed, you can select the specific option to view the data by.
For example, if you select to view data by Race/Ethnicity, you can further stratify the data by selecting Black non-Hispanic, Hispanic, White non-Hispanic, etc.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - stratifying data You can also stratify data when viewing all locations.
View Larger Stratify data - all locations view.
View data in table format To view data in table format, click the table icon next to the graph icon.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - table format If only one location is selected, the table displays information for one location.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - table format for one location View trends over time You can view trends over time for one or more indicators.
Note: All locations except "All States, DC, and Territories" are available for trend lines.
To view trends over time: on the home page under view trends over time, select a location, select a topic, and click go.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - trends over time Select one or more indicators to view in the trend line and click view results.
The system displays the results for the most recent year of data in graph format.
Under year, select all available years (trendline) option and click update.
Note: If you selected more than one indicator, select all available years (trendline) for each indicator and panel in order to display the trend line for the specific indicator.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - view in trend line The comparison report The comparison report allows you to select locations and compare data between the locations for the most current year’s data.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - comparison report Running a search You can search for a term or string within all categories and indicators.
To run a search: enter the search criteria, e.g., cancer in the search report field and click search.
The system searches within all indicators and categories and returns the results.
The system expands the category in which a search term is found.
The data displayed in the result defaults to the US.
To view data for additional locations, click the add/remove locations link to add or remove a location from your search.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - search Adding and removing a location You can select the locations that you want to add or remove from the list to be compared.
To add and remove locations to be compared, click the add/remove locations link.
The system displays the compare locations pop-up window.
You can select up to four locations to compare.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - refine search Select a check box to add a location or clear a check box to remove a location and click submit.
The system saves the selections and displays the comparison report based on the selected locations.
Click the + sign next to a topic to view the data for the selected locations and compare them.
View Larger Chronic disease indicators - compare locations Definitions and sources Indicator definitions The indicator definitions section provides a description for the indicators that are used on the page.
Data sources The footnotes and data sources section at the bottom of the page display area provides more information for the content displayed in the panel.
This section explains the symbols displayed on the page and lists the data source.
To hide this section, click the hide footnotes link.
To display it again, click the show footnotes link.
ON THIS PAGE The Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI) home page View data on a map View data in graph format Stratifying data View data in table format View trends over time The comparison report Definitions and sources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Chronic Disease Indicators Key surveillance indicators of chronic diseases and their risk factors.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Unusual Patterns of Cancer, the Environment, and Community Concerns EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Contact Information VIEW ALL Public Health Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Resources and Tools VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 12, 2024 Phased Approach to Respond to Community Inquiries: Phase 3 Considerations for epidemiologic studies KEY POINTS Conduct a feasibility assessment to determine whether an epidemiologic study would provide meaningful answers.
Establish a community advisory committee (CAC) to create a link back to the community for valuable information.
Consider different aspects to include in the study design and protocol development.
Phase 3: Considerations for epidemiologic studies Feasibility assessment The feasibility of designing and conducting an epidemiologic study is dependent upon a variety of factors.
For that reason, a feasibility assessment should be conducted to determine whether it is practical to conduct a study that would provide meaningful answers.
The feasibility assessment should address multiple issues, including, but not limited to, data availability, adequate sample size to detect meaningful differences or associations, staff capacity, and other resources.
In addition, to support studies and investigations it may be important for STLT health departments to consider all sources of funding and resources that may be available to them, including funding at the federal and state or local level, as well as nontraditional sources of funding.
When it has been determined that an epidemiologic study is feasible, do the following: Schedule meetings to discuss the initial findings and proposed approach for further assessment with the initial inquirer and other community members.
Provide a detailed description of the next steps for evaluation.
These next steps should be based on summary findings from the analysis of the 10 criteria in Phase 2.
Develop a summary that includes a rationale for continuing the investigation.
For example, the assessment identified a potential spatial cluster or environmental factors that warrant further exploration.
Establish a community advisory committee A community advisory committee (CAC) can contribute valuable sources of information and liaise with other community members.
A CAC can provide specific details on the community, including help with cultural sensitivities or knowledge of current and/or historical environmental concerns in the area.
A CAC can serve as a communication link back to the community at large.
Open communication will be needed to set goals, establish timelines, and discuss other issues (e.g., possible study limitations) so that expectations are clear.
As previously mentioned, it may be important to also discuss issues related to resource requirements and other barriers that may impact conducting an epidemiologic study.
Every community is different; however, agencies may be able to work with some existing organizations (e.g., neighborhood or religious organizations) to establish a CAC.
CAC and other community members can provide important insight and assist investigations: Help promote participation in studies and conduct outreach Identify specific tasks for community members that would contribute to the success of the investigation Identify additional data sources within the community (e.g., local lists that may be maintained which would identify previous residents) Identify population mobility patterns and housing development considerations Consider the following for study design and protocol development The following sections highlight the most important considerations for study design and protocol development.
Consider developing a peer review committee with external partners to assess study design issues.
Committee members should have a breadth of related skill sets in epidemiology, cancer, biostatistics, toxicology, and environmental health.
The final draft of the protocol should be shared with the CAC in advance of initiating the study.
Case definition Generate a formal case definition ahead of further analyses.
Include the type of cancer, the population, the geographic area of concern, and the time period of interest.
Review the study area and revise (if necessary) before starting additional analyses.
For example, early assessments may have indicated that a particular contaminant was of concern and that more populations were found to be at potential risk for exposure to this contaminant.
Thus, the study area would be expanded to include the other populations who were at potential risk for the exposure of concern.
Hypothesis A hypothesis regarding cancer cases or potential environmental contaminants was likely already generated during the assessment phase.
However, hypotheses can evolve during an investigation, particularly if a potential exposure source has not been identified1.
Re-review and update hypotheses regarding the cancer cases and contaminant(s) of interest (i.e., based on observations within the assessment phase to formulate analyses a priori).
The hypothesis helps to guide the collection of data, the analysis plan, and interpretation of results.
Study population Define the population of interest for the study.
Ask the following questions to help define the study population as well as the time period of interest: How are the boundaries defined for the geographic area of interest?
What are the characteristics of the population?
Are there specific characteristics that are noted for the people with cancer (i.e., age group, race/ethnicity)?
What is the latency period for the particular cancers of interest?
What years of residence would need to be included to reflect the latency/development period assumed for the cancers of concern?
How long have the residents lived in the area?
What is the mobility and migration of former residents?
Is there a potential for in utero exposures for the cancer(s) of concern based on where the mother lived during pregnancy?
Latency Latency and change of residence add to the complexity of these investigations.
Because residential history data are generally not available, collecting such data is critical as part of any epidemiologic study.
Given the long latency period associated with cancers in adults, behaviors and exposures that might have contributed to the development of cancer in a person typically occur years to decades before the diagnosis.
For example, malignant mesothelioma, a tumor of the lining of the lung, is associated with asbestos exposure, and the latency period between first exposure to asbestos and death from mesothelioma is often 30 years or longer2.
Latency in an epidemiologic investigation influences the exposure period relevant to the investigation.
For example, if a person with cancer did not live in the suspected area of cancer concern during the relevant exposure period, then that person's cancer would not likely be related to an exposure in the area of concern.
Conversely, the latency period might limit the ability to detect unusual patterns of cancer or identify cancers related to an environmental exposure that occurred in the past.
In a mobile population, patterns resulting from an environmental contamination occurring years or even decades earlier might go undetected because exposed residents may have moved away from the community before the cancer developed.
Thus, as persons move in and out of different communities, their cumulative exposure profile will change.
Because childhood cancers generally have shorter latency periods than cancers in adults, changes of residence might be less of an issue in the investigation of unusual patterns of childhood cancers.
However, childhood cancer investigations may have the same limitations as adult counterparts.
For example, in one California study of 380 children with a diagnosis of leukemia, approximately 65% of the study participants changed residence between birth and diagnosis3, indicating that even among cancers with short latency periods, migration might be an important factor.
Account for latency when designing any additional analyses or studies.
Additional environmental data If additional environmental data are needed, partner with state or local environmental regulatory agencies.
ATSDR, including the regional offices, can also provide technical assistance, such as review of environmental sampling plans.
Outline the types of sampling needed and resources available or necessary to conduct such sampling.
Also, consider the following: Potential sources and routes of exposure (e.g., through air inhalation, water ingestion, in utero) Contaminant transport (e.g., if exposure occurs via ambient air, meteorological factors such as wind direction and speed are important) Other contributing sources of exposure Boundaries of potential spread/movement (important to understand the potential at-risk population) Any prior or ongoing remediation or reduction activities related to the environmental concern of interest Role of participating agencies in data collection and identification of resources to support the collection of environmental data.
Existing health data for case finding Primarily, cases of cancer among the study population are identified from a state’s cancer registry, using the case definition.
Consider multiple existing data sources for use to help identify cases.
Forming partnerships with health information exchange or network entities may help with identifying other existing data sources.
For additional support and guidance, CDC/ATSDR can provide technical assistance.
Contributing risk factors An environmental factor may have been identified as a potential risk factor for the cancer of interest; however, cancers may be caused by several different risk factors or through multiple causal mechanisms4.
Review additional risk factors for the type(s) of cancer under investigation, such as social determinants of health, behavioral risks, occupational exposures, and in some cases genetic factors.
Types of epidemiologic studies to consider Methods used in environmental epidemiology are observational, not experimental.
This makes the process of identifying a causative agent more difficult because researchers may not have access to information about other exposures or other variables that can create bias in the analysis156.
However, additional studies can potentially help make inferences about cancer cases and potential associations.
Consider the following types of descriptive or analytical studies: Case-series study: A case-series study is a descriptive analysis of persons with a similar cancer diagnosis.
This study can be particularly helpful when there are small numbers of cases and it is not feasible to pursue other studies (e.g., statistical challenges associated with a small number of individuals diagnosed with the disease).
Case-series studies are often designed to collect more information about each person to identify any commonalities.
For these studies, identify as many relevant cases as possible to avoid selection bias.
Depending on the findings, a further analytical study may be possible or warranted (see case-control or cohort below).
Ecological study: An ecological study compares aggregated environmental data to aggregated cancer data to examine general associations.
Exposures and outcomes are generally grouped to a geographic area, such as a census tract, for comparison.
Individual exposures are not included in an ecological analysis.
Ecological studies are most often done initially to explore potential associations but alone cannot determine causality.
Epidemiologists must use caution when interpreting this type of analysis because the association with a particular environmental contaminant might not be true for individual cases, especially if there is heterogeneous distribution of the exposure over the geographic area.
The related bias is known as ecological inference fallacy and could result in exposure misclassification.
Cross-sectional study: A cross-sectional study is another descriptive study that measures health outcomes and exposure factors during a specific point in time.
This type of study is helpful in describing the frequency of different characteristics in a study population during the time frame of interest.
However, it may not be the ideal study design for investigating unusual patterns of cancer because this type of study design only looks at data distributions in a specific time frame, and temporal patterns cannot be established.
In instances when biomarker data are available, a cross-sectional study may provide insights about key exposures among the population.
Case-control study: Consider a case-control study when the etiology of the cancer is unknown.
This type of analytical study can also be used to assess the association between cancer and a presumed exposure while being able to control for confounding factors.
A case-control study collects information from cancer cases meeting the case-definition and controls within the same study area.
Exposures and risk factors are compared between the two groups, for example using regression analysis methods.
Case-control studies are suggested for rare cancer outcomes.
Unlike the ecological study, case-control studies allow for the collection of individual-level data and risk factors to assess within the analyses.
The primary disadvantages of a case-control study are the inability for individuals to recall historic events (e.g., exposures) and the difficulty of providing a direct estimate of risk.
Risk is often estimated as an odds ratio, showing the odds for a particular cancer to have occurred given a particular exposure, compared to odds of the same cancer without the exposure.
For this type of study, the sample size needed should be calculated ahead of time considering the power needed to detect statistical differences between the populations (Appendix A).
Cohort (retrospective or prospective): Consider a cohort study when the exposure source is known or being investigated.
Select people who have varying levels of exposure for the study.
Prospective cohort studies, while one of the strongest types of studies to examine exposure-disease relationships, are very time consuming and expensive.
Depending on the latency of the cancer(s) of concern, a prospective cohort study may need to be 10–20 years or longer to collect enough data for analyses.
The length of time needed often must account for study attrition and thus require a very large sample size.
A retrospective cohort study may be feasible, but also is reliant on time-related information.
For example, a cohort study may want to compare a population exposed to chemicals from Factory X, which was operating in the early 1990s.
To establish a study cohort, a population within that community would have to have been in the study area ~30 years previously.
Because of the length of time needed for these studies, some challenges may arise that need to be accounted for within the study design.
For example, a community may have experienced a substantial percentage of movement or migration.
Also, as previously mentioned, the latency of the cancer will also need to be accounted for within the study design.
For example, the average latency for mesothelioma is generally thought to be decades7.
More recently, data from the World Trade Center Health Program suggests that the minimum latency for mesothelioma is about 11 years and the minimum latency for thyroid cancer is 2.5 years4.
Studies assessing these types of cancers would have to account for the number of years that specific types of cancers develop following exposures.
Additionally, limitations exist with quantifying historic exposures for retrospective cohort studies.
Ongoing technical and scientific advancements in areas such as data science, analytic and geospatial methods, and cancer genomics may be available in the future (e.g., genomic research, gene-environment interaction).
Other considerations for your study When evaluating the feasibility of different epidemiologic studies, consider the following: Funding: Funding may be needed to help with the investigation.
Seek state and federal opportunities to assist with funding the investigation or with providing technical assistance.
In addition, academic partnerships may help to support the investigation.
Outreach: For more robust analyses, reach out to other states to discuss case-finding and/or environmental sampling activities, specifically in neighboring states if suspected environmental contaminants cross state borders.
Communication: Ultimately, the goal of an epidemiologic investigation of unusual patterns or excesses of cancer is to understand the potential relationship between environmental and other risk factors identified and observed cases of cancer.
Some epidemiologic investigations have identified potential associations between certain cancers and risk factors including exposures to certain chemicals8910.
However, methodological limitations and data limitations (such as unknown levels of exposure) often limit the ability to demonstrate that such relationships exist.
Regardless of the outcome of an epidemiologic investigation, continuing to communicate with individuals most concerned about exposures and health outcomes is important.
ON THIS PAGE Phase 3: Considerations for epidemiologic studies Establish a community advisory committee Consider the following for study design and protocol development Types of epidemiologic studies to consider Other considerations for your study RELATED PAGES Guidelines for Examining Unusual Patterns of Cancer and Environmental Concerns Phase 1: Initiating Lines of Communication Phase 2: Criteria to Determine Continued Assessment of a Report Acknowledgments List Appendix A: Statistical Considerations VIEW ALL Unusual Cancer Patterns Acknowledgments List SOURCES PRINT SHARE Unusual Cancer Patterns Guidelines and resources for examining unusual patterns of cancer and environmental concerns.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo HOJA INFORMATIVA: Respuesta de los Estados Unidos al brote de la viruela símica (mpox) clado I en varios países africanos ENGLISH (US) HOJA INFORMATIVA Para publicación inmediata: 22 de de agosto del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov El 14 de agosto del 2024, la Organización Mundial de la Salud (OMS) declaró una emergencia de salud pública de importancia internacional debido al aumento de casos de viruela símica (mpox) en la República Democrática del Congo (RDC) y una cantidad creciente de países en África.
Este anuncio siguió a la declaración de Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades de África (CDC África) de una emergencia de salud pública de seguridad continental, emitida el 13 de agosto.
El aumento significativo de casos de mpox clado I, tanto en países endémicos (aquellos que han tenido brotes anteriores de mpox) como no endémicos (aquellos que históricamente no han notificado brotes de mpox), amenaza la seguridad de la salud de la región, al igual que la de países fuera de África.
Además, la mpox clado I tiene un nuevo subclado del virus llamado clado Ib.
Tanto el clado Ia como el clado Ib están circulando en la República Democrática del Congo y se han detectado en países vecinos, así como en Suecia y Tailandia (un caso en cada país asociados a viajes a África y se sabe que son casos del clado I).
En el 2022, el mundo tuvo un brote global de la mpox clado IIb, que causó más de 95 000 casos a lo largo de 115 países no endémicos y que continúa en los Estados Unidos.
La Administración Biden-Harris respondió garantizando que la vacuna contra la mpox JYNNEOS estuviera disponible para las poblaciones en riesgo en los Estados Unidos.
En febrero, cuando aumentó el brote de la mpox clado I en la República Democrática del Congo, la Administración Biden-Harris estableció una estructura de respuesta al incidente a través de todos los departamentos y agencias federales para garantizar una respuesta coordinada; también para tomar un enfoque proactivo para la preparación nacional en los Estados Unidos contra posibles casos de la mpox clado I.
El clado I del virus de la mpox causa una mayor cantidad de infecciones graves y tiene una tasa de mortalidad más alta que la del clado IIb.
Debido a que la evidencia de los resultados clínicos del clado I del virus de la mpox se basan primordialmente en datos provenientes de países endémicos sin atención de apoyo generalizada, particularmente de la República Democrática del Congo, no sabemos todavía cómo el clado I del virus de la mpox afectaría a las personas en los Estados Unidos; sin embargo, esperamos que causase una morbilidad y mortalidad más bajas en este país.
Preparación de los Estados Unidos para la mpox clado I La Administración Biden-Harris ha estado monitoreando de cerca la propagación de la mpox, específicamente del clado I, y ha estado trabajando desde diciembre del 2023 para la preparación nacional.
El riesgo para la mayoría de las personas en los Estados Unidos por el clado I del virus de la mpox que está circulando en África Central y Oriental, y la cantidad de casos asociados a viajes que hay fuera de África son muy bajos, y en estos momentos no se sabe de casos en los Estados Unidos.
Este país está bien preparado para detectar, contener y manejar rápidamente casos del clado I si se presentan en el país.
Los Estados Unidos continúan aumentando su capacidad para detectar casos del clado I y del clado IIb del virus de la mpox a través de sistemas de vigilancia existentes, que incluyen pruebas al agua de desecho; también mediante la expansión de la robusta capacidad de pruebas de diagnóstico creada durante el brote en curso del clado IIb, para garantizar la cobertura para el clado I.
La capacidad de agilizar dichas pruebas de diagnóstico —en particular para aquellos que recientemente han viajado a la República Democrática del Congo o países vecinos—, también ayuda a la rápida detección.
Además de reafirmar la importancia de la vacunación contra la mpox para aquellas personas que son elegibles, estamos trabajando para prevenir la propagación de ambos clados del virus de la mpox al proporcionar y difundir recomendaciones para los médicos, departamentos de salud, laboratorios de diagnóstico y el público.
Desde agosto del 2022 hasta agosto del 2024, la Administración para la Preparación y Respuesta Estratégicas (ASPR), que es parte del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (HHS) distribuyó más de un millón de viales de la vacuna JYNNEOS en todos los Estados Unidos para mitigar la propagación y gravedad del brote de la mpox clado II.
Además de brindar la vacuna preventiva, colaboradores de todo el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos están trabajando para entender mejor la eficacia de los tratamientos existentes para la mpox, y para tener opciones de tratamiento disponibles en caso de que se notifiquen casos del clado I en este país.
Los Estados Unidos continuarán proporcionando información al público sobre la transmisión, la prevención y el tratamiento de la mpox.
Se espera que las personas que ya tuvieron la mpox clado IIb, o que fueron vacunadas totalmente contra esta enfermedad, estén protegidas contra el clado I del virus.
Los CDC han emitido a través de su Red de Alertas de Salud una advertencia actualizada para los médicos, departamentos de salud pública y colaboradores, al igual que un aviso de salud para viajeros actualizado, recomendando a quienes viajen a la República Democrática del Congo, o países vecinos, que intensifiquen sus precauciones.
A través del Departamento de Estado, nuestras embajadas están trabajando para mantener a los ciudadanos estadounidenses en el extranjero informados acerca de estas actualizaciones.
En este momento, los CDC y la OMS no aconsejan evitar viajes a la República Democrática del Congo ni a otras partes debido a los brotes de mpox.
El apoyo de los Estados Unidos para el brote global de mpox El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos ha estado monitoreando de cerca desde el 2023 la propagación de la mpox del clado I en la República Democrática del Congo, así como el riesgo para los países vecinos; también hemos estado trabajando estrechamente con los Gobiernos de los países afectados, así como con colaboradores regionales y globales a fin de reducir el impacto de este brote y salvaguardar la salud pública.
El apoyo del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos para la respuesta al brote de mpox se fundamenta en alianzas de larga data sobre la seguridad de la salud global y el desarrollo con la República Democrática del Congo y toda África, con las que se ha ayudado a combatir enfermedades infecciosas, como la infección por el VIH, la tuberculosis, y la malaria (paludismo), por más de 20 años.
En el año fiscal 2023, los Estados Unidos asignaron más de $2650 millones en fondos para salud bilateral con destino a países en África Central y Oriental, y son el mayor donante para la salud global.
Desde marzo del 2024, USAID y los CDC conjuntamente han proporcionado una partida adicional de $20 millones de dólares estadounidenses para apoyar los esfuerzos de respuesta a la mpox clado I en África Central y Oriental; y el 20 de agosto, USAID anunció asistencia de emergencia para salud adicional por hasta $35 millones para reforzar los esfuerzos de la respuesta (cuya notificación está pendiente por parte del Congreso), elevando el total propuesto de apoyo financiero del Gobierno estadounidense para la República Democrática del Congo y otros países afectados en la región a más de $55 millones.
Además del apoyo financiero directo, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está aumentando significativamente el personal para apoyar la respuesta a la mpox.
Más de 200 miembros de personal, incluidos epidemiólogos, laboratoristas y expertos en comunicación de riesgos, han sido enviados para apoyar los esfuerzos de la respuesta en los Estados Unidos y en África.
El apoyo del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos se ha enfocado en una variedad de intervenciones de salud pública críticas dirigidas a limitar la transmisión y a reducir la morbilidad y mortalidad de la mpox.
Estas intervenciones incluyen vigilancia con envío de epidemiólogos de campo locales adicionales, comunicación de riesgos y participación comunitaria, suministros de laboratorio y de diagnóstico, prevención y control de infecciones, servicios clínicos y planificación de vacunas.
Además de aumentar la vigilancia, la realización de pruebas y el tratamiento de los casos, la vacunación será un elemento crucial de la respuesta a este brote.
Las campañas de vacunación exitosas requerirán trabajadores de la salud para administrar las vacunas, apoyo financiero para la distribución de las vacunas y los suministros de vacunación, y aprobación regulatoria para usar las vacunas en los países afectados.
Para apoyar este esfuerzo, USAID está donando 50 000 dosis de la vacuna JYNNEOS aprobada por la FDA a la República Democrática del Congo, así como apoyo financiero para la distribución de las dosis de la vacuna.
Los Estados Unidos están trabajando con otros países que tienen reservas de vacunas, así como con la OMS y otros colaboradores internacionales para fomentar las donaciones adicionales que apoyen los esfuerzos de vacunación y aborden los retos de la entrega de las vacunas.
Esto incluye evaluar la demanda de la vacuna, apoyar la participación del país en las vías regulatorias, planificar la implementación de la vacunación y proporcionar ayuda técnica para la entrega de las vacunas.
Los Estados Unidos están trabajando con colaboradores bilaterales, multilaterales y del sector privado para crear e implementar una respuesta coordinada, que incluya la colaboración con la OMS y CDC África en sus planes de respuesta.
Los Estados Unidos, a través del Departamento de Estado, continuarán trabajando mediante el Plan de acción conjunta entre los Estados Unidos y África adoptado en noviembre del 2023 para incrementar la capacidad de los estados miembros de la Unión Africana para prevenir, detectar y responder a las emergencias de salud.
La Administración Biden-Harris continuará con su enfoque de respuesta total gubernamental para este brote creciente, y se fundamentará en las lecciones aprendidas de la respuesta a la mpox en el 2022.
Para saber más acerca de la mpox, sus signos y síntomas, tratamientos y prevención, visite el sitio web de los CDC aquí.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos El aumento en los casos de enfermedad y muertes en el brote de Listeria vinculado a carnes frías es un recordatorio de evitar los productos retirados del mercado La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar Aviso de investigación de los CDC: Tortugas pequeñitas, cuya venta como mascotas es ilegal, están otra vez causando enfermedades por Salmonella en niños pequeños Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionando vacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Aviso de investigación de los CDC: Tortugas pequeñitas, cuya venta como mascotas es ilegal, están otra vez causando enfermedades por Salmonella en niños pequeños FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Global Typhoid Fever Vaccination Laboratory Information Publications REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi VIEW ALL View All APRIL 25, 2024 About Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever KEY POINTS Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are life-threatening illnesses.
Each of the illnesses is caused by a kind of Salmonella bacteria (germs).
Most people in the United States with these illnesses were infected during international travel.
You can find out if you need a typhoid fever vaccine at 
Overview Symptoms Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever have similar symptoms, including fever.
The illnesses are life-threatening and people with symptoms should get medical help immediately.
Germs responsible The illnesses are caused by Salmonella bacteria.
Typhoid fever is caused by Salmonella serotype Typhi.
Paratyphoid fever is caused by Salmonella serotype Paratyphi.
Illness estimates Every year, millions of people around the world get sick from these diseases.
Typhoid fever 9.2 million illnesses are estimated to occur worldwide each year 5,700 illnesses and 620 hospitalizations are estimated to occur in the United States each year.
Most people are infected while traveling internationally.
Paratyphoid fever 3.8 million illnesses are estimated to occur worldwide each year CDC does not have estimates of illnesses and hospitalizations in the United States Where illness is common These illnesses are most common in parts of the world where water and food can be unsafe, and sanitation can be poor, including parts of: Asia (especially Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh) Africa Latin America Most people in the United States with typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever were infected while traveling to these places.
Risk factors The chances of getting typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever in the United States are very low.
The chances increase for people in the United States who: Travel to countries in Africa, Asia, or Latin America where the diseases are common Visit rural areas of those countries Visit family and friends in those countries Are not vaccinated against typhoid fever Almost all people in the United States with these diseases report that they have traveled internationally.
Most report that they traveled to countries in South Asia, including Pakistan, India, or Bangladesh.
How it spreads The bacteria spread to and among people in several ways The bacteria that cause these illnesses are shed (gotten rid of) in poop.
People who shed the bacteria include: People who have symptoms of typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever People who are no longer sick but still have the bacteria in their body You can get typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever after swallowing the bacteria.
The bacteria can get in your mouth in several ways, including: Through food, drinks, and water that have been contaminated by sewage Through food that has been rinsed in contaminated water and then eaten Through food that has been touched by a person who did not wash their hands after using the bathroom or changing a diaper You can take steps to keep safe from these diseases KEEP READING: Preventing Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever ON THIS PAGE Overview Risk factors How it spreads SOURCES PRINT SHARE Typhoid Fever Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are life-threatening illnesses.
Learn about how they spread, risk factors, and how you can prevent infections.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionando vacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo MARTES, 13 DE AGOSTO DEL 2024 Tenga en cuenta: esta transcripción no está editada y puede tener errores.
Moderadora 00:00 Brittany, bienvenida y gracias a todos ustedes por unirse en este momento.
Quisiera informarles a todos los participantes que sus líneas se han puesto en modo de escucha solamente hasta la sesión de preguntas y respuestas de la llamada de hoy.
La llamada de hoy también se está grabando.
Si alguien tiene alguna objeción, se puede desconectar en este momento, y ahora le pasaré la línea a Brittney Manchester.
Puede comenzar.
Brittney Manchester 00:23 Gracias, Sue, y gracias a todos ustedes por acompañarnos hoy cuando difundimos un nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC.
Nos acompañan nuestras dos oradoras, la doctora Deborah Houry, la funcionaria médica principal de los CDC, y la doctora Georgina Peacock, la directora de la División de Servicios de Vacunación.
Esta sesión informativa está embargada hasta la 1 p.
hora del este de hoy, cuando nuestro informe de Signos Vitales se publique en el sitio web de los CDC.
Ahora le pasaré la línea a la doctora Houry.
Deborah Houry 00:55 Las vacunas de rutina son nuestra mejor defensa contra las enfermedades que pueden enfermar gravemente a los niños, son una herramienta clave que puede mantenerlos saludables en la escuela y listos para aprender.
Durante más de 100 años las vacunas han salvado vidas, pero todavía existe la amenaza de enfermarse gravemente para quienes no se han vacunado.
Recibir las vacunas oportunamente es primordial durante la niñez y al acercarse el regreso a la escuela.
Ahora es el mejor momento para que las familias chequeen si sus hijos están al día con su atención médica de rutina.
Hoy, en este informe de Signos Vitales, reportamos datos sobre un Programa histórico que el Congreso puso en marcha en 1994, el Programa Vacunas para Niños o VFC.
El Congreso lo estableció para proporcionar vacunas de rutina sin costo a los niños elegibles.
Desde el inicio del Programa VFC, la vacunación de rutina de niños nacidos desde 1994 hasta el 2023 habría prevenido 508 millones de casos de enfermedades, salvado más de un millón de vidas y ahorrado casi 2.7 billones en costos para la sociedad.
Esto significa que cada dólar gastado en inmunizaciones de niños produjo ahorros de casi $11.
En el 2023 el VFC distribuyó más de 74 millones de dosis de vacunas pediátricas a proveedores de atención médica participantes; todas las personas de 18 años o menos que son elegibles para Medicaid, que no tienen seguro médico o cuyo seguro es insuficiente, o que son indígenas de los Estados Unidos o nativas de Alaska, pueden recibir vacunas de proveedores del Programa VFC sin costo.
Actualmente los CDC proporcionan fondos a 61 programas de inmunización estatales, locales y territoriales para implementar el programa VFC en más de 37 000 sitios inscritos, proporcionando todas las vacunas infantiles recomendadas contra 19 enfermedades diferentes.
Apoyar las familias jóvenes es una prioridad de los esfuerzos de salud pública de los CDC.
Este Programa presta servicios como uno de los más importantes contribuyentes para la equidad en la salud.
Ayuda a garantizar que todos los niños tengan una mejor probabilidad de recibir las vacunas recomendadas a su debido tiempo.
La vacunación oportuna significa que habrá niños, familias y comunidades más sanos.
Ahora le paso la palabra a la doctora Georgina Peacock, quién destacará los hallazgos del informe de Signos Vitales difundido hoy.
Georgina Peacock 03:22 Gracias.
Doctora Houry, el informe de Signos Vitales de hoy destaca los éxitos históricos del Programa Vacunas para Niños y cómo nosotros podemos reducir aún más las brechas en la cobertura de la vacunación para los niños elegibles.
La cobertura de la vacunación es el porcentaje estimado de personas que han recibido vacunas específicas.
El informe de Signos Vitales halló que casi el 90 % de los niños elegibles para el VFC nacidos en el 2020 recibieron la vacuna contra el sarampión, las paperas y la rubéola, o MMR, sin diferencias en la cobertura por raza o grupo étnico, situación de pobreza, o de vivienda en áreas rurales o urbanas.
Estos nuevos datos muestran que el Programa VFC ha ayudado a garantizar que todos los niños puedan recibir vacunas que salvan vidas.
Todavía hay oportunidades para aumentar la cobertura de las vacunas recomendadas para los niños elegibles para el Programa VFC.
La cobertura de la vacunación entre los niños elegibles nacidos desde el 2011 hasta el 2020 fue más baja que entre los niños nacidos en esos mismos años que no eran elegibles para el VFC.
Para los niños nacidos en el 2020, la cobertura de la vacunación fue más baja entre los que eran elegibles para el VFC que no tenían seguro médico en comparación con aquellos que estaban inscritos en Medicaid.
La cobertura también fue más baja para aquellos que vivían por debajo del nivel de pobreza en comparación los que vivían en el nivel de pobreza o sobre este, a excepción de la vacuna MMR.
A pesar de que el programa VFC proporciona las vacunas infantiles recomendadas sin costo, los niños sin seguro y los que viven en situación de pobreza podrían enfrentar otras barreras para la vacunación.
La cobertura combinada para las siete vacunas seleccionadas, conocidas como la serie de siete combinada, apenas estuvo por encima del 61 % para los niños elegibles para el VFC nacidos en el 2020.
Para las vacunas individuales en esta serie, la utilización más alta fue de alrededor del 90 % para las primeras dosis de las vacunas y las vacunas administradas más temprano en la vida.
La cobertura de la vacunación más baja fue para las vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis con al menos una dosis administrada después de los 12 meses de vida.
Esto parece indicar que los niños enfrentan dificultades para recibir las vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis, al igual que las dosis en el segundo año de vida.
Para la vacuna contra el rotavirus, que no se incluyó en la serie de siete combinadas, la cobertura de la vacunación hasta los ocho meses entre los niños elegibles para el VFC fue de hasta el 71 % con aumentos leves cada año.
Los proveedores de atención médica pueden ayudar a aumentar la cobertura de la vacunación al recomendar enfáticamente las vacunas y evaluar las necesidades de vacunas en cada visita.
Juntos, podemos aumentar la cantidad de niños que reciben las vacunas recomendadas y ayudar a proteger a los niños de las enfermedades y de enfermarse gravemente.
Debra Houry 06:12 Gracias.
Doctora Peacock, este informe de Signos Vitales identifica los muchos éxitos del Programa Vacunas para Niños, pero también destaca la necesidad de reducir las brechas en la cobertura de la vacunación para los niños que viven por debajo del nivel de pobreza y aquellos que no tienen seguro médico.
Necesitamos hacer más.
Los proveedores de atención médica son nuestros colaboradores esenciales para aumentar la cantidad de niños que completan sus series de vacunación y para llegar a aquellos niños que viven por debajo del nivel de pobreza y aquellos que no tienen seguro médico.
Los proveedores de atención médica pueden promover las vacunas animando a que se administren todas las vacunas infantiles recomendadas; fortaleciendo sus relaciones con las familias; educando a los padres acerca de los beneficios de las vacunas; y participando en el Programa VFC para proporcionar vacunas durante las citas de rutina para aquellos niños que cumplen los requisitos.
Los CDC lanzaron en el 2023 la iniciativa Let's RISE, sobre las inmunizaciones de rutina oportunas para todos, para que las personas en los Estados Unidos se pongan al día con las vacunas que no recibieron o se retrasaron durante la pandemia del COVID-19.
Esto ayudará a asegurar que los niños y adolescentes estén al día con todas las vacunas recomendadas, y puede ayudar a mantener a los niños saludables en las escuelas y listos para aprender.
Las familias pueden obtener las vacunas para sus niños en cualquier consultorio médico privado, centro médico privado, hospital, centro médico de salud pública, centro de salud comunitario, escuelas o farmacias que sean proveedores inscritos en el Programa VFC.
Para encontrar un proveedor del Programa VFC, contacte a su departamento de salud estatal o local.
Ahora abriré la línea para las preguntas.
Brittney Manchester 07:46 Gracias doctora Houry y doctora Peacock.
Sue, estamos listos para las preguntas.
Moderadora 07:52 Gracias.
En este momento, si usted quiere hacer una pregunta, por favor asegúrese de que su teléfono no esté silenciado.
Presione asterisco 1 y grave su nombre claramente cuando se le pida.
Si necesita retirar su solicitud, puede presionar asterisco 2.
De nuevo, para hacer una pregunta es asterisco 1.
Les pedimos que se limiten a una pregunta y otra de seguimiento.
Un momento para la primera pregunta, que es de Mike Stobbe de Associated Press.
Mike Stobbe 08:28 Hola.
Gracias por realizar esta llamada y por aceptar mi pregunta.
Mi primera pregunta es: Lo siento, veo información sobre niños elegibles para las vacunas, pero me preguntaba si hay una estadística sobre cuántos niños en los Estados Unidos reciben vacunas a través del VFC cada año.
No he podido encontrar una declaración sencilla sobre cuántos niños, o qué porcentaje de nuestros niños, reciben sus vacunas a través del VFC.
Y mi pregunta de seguimiento.
Usted habló, doctora Houry, usted habló sobre la importancia de los proveedores médicos.
Me pregunto si nos podría hablar un poco más acerca de la participación de los proveedores en el VFC.
¿Está aumentando o disminuyendo?
¿Está al nivel que ustedes necesitan?
¿Hay una meta que están tratando de lograr?
Hola, gracias.
Georgina Peacock 09:21 Soy la doctora Peacock.
La respuesta a su primera pregunta es que hay más de 40 millones de niños que son elegibles para el VFC.
O sea que estimamos que alrededor de la mitad de los niños en los Estados Unidos reciben sus vacunas a través del VFC.
En lo que respecta a la vacunación, quiero decir, a la participación, actualmente tenemos alrededor de 37 000 proveedores.
Sí sabemos que hay lugares en donde es necesario aumentar el acceso a vacunas, y por lo tanto todavía estamos buscando aumentar la cantidad de proveedores del VFC este año en particular.
Nos estamos enfocando en inscribir a más hospitales de maternidad como proveedores del VFC.
Como saben, el año pasado lanzamos el nuevo producto de immunización nirsevimab, el cual protege a los bebés contra el virus respiratorio sincitial o RSV, y el mejor lugar para que esos bebés reciban esa inmunización es en un hospital de maternidad antes de que vayan a casa; por lo tanto, aumentar la cantidad de hospitales de maternidad que sean proveedores del VFC les brinda ese acceso antes del alta para ir a casa.
Debra Houry 10:27 Y yo soy la doctora Houry.
Yo solo añadiría que creo que es importante tener tanto un mejor acceso como mejor y mayor confianza.
Y aquí es donde los proveedores tienen un papel tan clave; es garantizando esa confianza y teniendo esas conversaciones con los padres.
Y aquí es donde los medios también tienen un papel importante, en aumentar la confianza en el trabajo científico que hacemos y en promover la necesidad de las vacunas, especialmente cuando todos nuestros niñitos están regresando a la escuela.
Moderadora 10:57 Gracias.
En este momento no hay más preguntas.
Les recuerdo, si quieren hacer una pregunta, presionen asterisco 1.
Un momento, veamos si tenemos más preguntas.
Un momento para la siguiente pregunta.
Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Nick Karmia, KJZZ News en Phoenix, adelante.
Nick Karmia 11:38 Muchas gracias.
¿Me escuchan bien?
Nick Karmia 11:44 Fabuloso.
De nuevo, Gracias por hacer esta llamada.
Tengo curiosidad.
Estamos en una estación miembro de NPR aquí en Phoenix, y nos preguntamos si nos podrían proporcionar algún dato específico sobre los estados.
Ya sé que usted mencionó esto antes, 30 000, 37 000 sitios diferentes.
¿Hay bastantes de esos dentro de Arizona?, ¿Están consolidados en ciertos estados dentro del país?
Georgina Peacock 12:15 Habla la doctora Peacock.
Hay proveedores de vacunas que son proveedores del VFC en todos los estados.
El Programa Vacunas para Niños es administrado a través de programas de inmunización estatales y, por lo tanto, el Departamento de Salud de Arizona maneja un programa de inmunización e inscribe a proveedores del VFC en ese programa.
Nick Karmia 12:40 Solo una pregunta rápida de seguimiento para usted.
Sé que usted, si recuerdo correctamente, usted mencionó tasas bajas de vacunas o tasas bajas entre los niños que recibían vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis.
¿Hay una razón en particular para eso?
¿O eso viene solo de la pandemia, de la necesidad de múltiples dosis de la vacuna contra el COVID?
¿De dónde proviene esa falta de confianza?
Georgina Peacock 13:07 Parte de eso puede ser por falta de confianza.
Parte de eso puede ser por el acceso.
Muchas de las vacunas que se ofrecen en los primeros dos años de vida, necesitan más de una en esas series.
Por ejemplo, la DTaP, usted recibe tres de esas dosis en los primeros dos años de vida.
O sea que lo que encontramos fue que había una mayor probabilidad de que los niños recibieran esa primera dosis, pero luego, porque necesitan recibir esas tres dosis.
Por lo tanto, cuando pasamos al segundo año de vida, vimos que esas series no necesariamente se completaron; o sea que la serie de siete combinadas son las dosis, todas las dosis que se necesitan en esos primeros dos años de vida para, de esta manera, estar al día con esas vacunas.
Moderadora 14:06 Gracias.
Les recuerdo, es asterisco 1, si quieren hacer una pregunta.
Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Mike Stobbe de Associated Press.
Mike Stobbe 14:18 Hola, gracias.
Yo de nuevo, si se presenta la oportunidad, gracias.
Solo quisiera preguntar un poquito más sobre la diferencia en la cobertura de la vacunación entre los elegibles y los no elegibles para el VFC.
Y sobre lo que ha ocurrido últimamente, parece que la información se interrumpió en el 2020.
Me pregunto si ustedes tienen información adicional sobre las tasas de vacunación para la MMR o la serie de las siete vacunas, o el rotavirus.
¿Qué ha sucedido desde el 2020, el VFC ha tenido más éxito o menos éxito en los últimos tres o cuatro años?
¿Pueden darnos una explicación sobre las tendencias?
Georgina Peacock 15:00 Para averiguar, por ejemplo, si se completó la serie de las siete combinadas, necesitamos que los niños lleguen a los dos años de edad, para proporcionar esa información.
Y es por eso que estábamos observando a los niños en este estudio en particular desde el 2020, el año de su nacimiento.
Le voy a pasar la palabra a la primera autora del estudio para ver si tiene algo que agregar.
Maddie Valier, Madeleine Valier 15:26 Hola, sí.
Quisiera agregar que este estudio utiliza los datos más recientes que tenemos disponibles.
Son los datos de niños de la Encuesta Nacional de Vacunación del 2022.
Los datos del 2023 se están analizando actualmente y está previsto que se publiquen a finales de este año.
Mike Stobbe 15:41 Oh, qué bien.
¿Y quién habló?
Madeleine Valier 15:43 ¿Madeleine Valier?
Sí, soy Madeline Valier.
Mike Stobbe 15:52 Gracias.
Y Moderadora 15:53 En este momento no hay más preguntas.
De nuevo, les recuerdo, si quieren hacer preguntas, presionen asterisco 1.
Un momento, veamos si hay más preguntas.
Y un momento para la siguiente pregunta.
Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Helena Olivera del Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Helena Olivera 16:23 Sí, hola.
Muchas gracias y gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Esto probablemente está en alguna parte del informe del estudio.
Solo que no lo encuentro y quiero asegurarme de tenerlo visible.
Cuando, aquí, cuando ustedes hablan de que casi el 90 % de los niños elegibles para el VFC nacidos entre el 2011 y el 2020 recibieron la vacuna MMR.
¿Cuál es el porcentaje de los niños no elegibles para el VFC que recibieron la vacuna MMR durante ese periodo?
Madeleine Valier 17:01 Hola, habla Madeleine Valier.
En el estudio, no publicamos específicamente la cobertura entre los niños no elegibles para el VFC, pero sí mostramos la diferencia en la cobertura.
O sea que si usted toma el 90 %, y luego la diferencia en la cobertura son alrededor de tres y medio puntos porcentuales entre los niños nacidos en el 2020, usted verá que la cobertura entre los niños no elegibles para el VFC está un poco por encima del 93 %.
Moderadora 17:29 Gracias.
Nuestra siguiente pregunta es de Youri Benadjaoud de ABC News, adelante.
Youri Benadjaoud 17:37 Un saludo.
Gracias por aceptar mi pregunta.
Tengo una pregunta más general con respecto a las inmunizaciones de los menores en general.
Entiendo que este estudio analizó poblaciones especialmente jóvenes, pero muchos estados están restringiendo, y pienso particularmente en Tennessee, si los niños pueden ser vacunados sin la presencia de alguno de sus padres.
Me pregunto si los CDC tienen algo que decir sobre eso, o sobre cómo eso puede, saben, ser otra barrera para lograr la vacunación de los niños.
Georgina Peacock 18:10 Hola.
Habla la doctora Peacock.
Ese tipo de leyes sobre consentimiento por lo general son a nivel estatal, o sea que sería importante hacer seguimiento específicamente con programas de inmunización o con departamentos de salud estatales acerca de esa información.
Youri Benadjaoud 18:31 Gracias.
Moderadora 18:32 Y esa fue nuestra última pregunta.
Ahora les daré la palabra de nuevo a nuestras oradoras para cualquier comentario de cierre.
Brittney Manchester 18:38 Gracias, doctora Houry y doctora Peacock por acompañarnos hoy, al igual que a todos los reporteros en la línea.
Si tienen alguna pregunta de seguimiento, por favor llamen a la División de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC al 404-639-3286 o envíennos un email a media@cdc.gov.
Gracias de nuevo por acompañarnos.
Esto concluye nuestra llamada.
Moderadora 19:02 Gracias.
Eso concluye la conferencia de hoy.
Gracias a todos por su participación.
Ya se pueden desconectar.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar HOJA INFORMATIVA: Respuesta de los Estados Unidos al brote del clado I de la viruela símica (mpox) en varios países africanos Aviso de investigación de los CDC: Tortugas pequeñitas, cuya venta como mascotas es ilegal, están otra vez causando enfermedades por Salmonella en niños pequeños El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionandovacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo Datos de los CDC muestran mejoras en la salud mental de los jóvenes, pero también la necesidad de escuelas más seguras y que presten más apoyo VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionandovacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Global Typhoid Fever Vaccination Laboratory Information Publications REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi VIEW ALL View All Symptoms of Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever For Everyone AUG.
5, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever have similar symptoms.
The most common symptom is a fever.
People with symptoms should get medical help immediately.
Signs and symptoms Fever is common.
The fever can be as high as 103–104°F (39–40°C).
The fever usually lasts more than 3 days.
People can have other symptoms, including: Weakness Stomach pain Headache Constipation or diarrhea Cough Loss of appetite Some people get a rash with flat, rose-colored spots.
Seek care for these symptoms Do not wait See a doctor if you have a fever and feel very ill.
If you are traveling outside the United States and need help finding healthcare, visit CDC's page for getting healthcare during travel.
Treatment is very important You can get very ill.
Without treatment, your fever can last for weeks or months.
You also can develop other health problems.
These health problems can be very dangerous and might lead to death.
The danger might not end, even if your symptoms go away.
If your symptoms go away without treatment, you might still carry the bacteria that made you sick and it can spread to others or cause your illness to return.
Treatment information Antibiotics treat typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever.
Learn more ON THIS PAGE Signs and symptoms Seek care for these symptoms Treatment is very important RELATED PAGES About Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Typhoid Fever Prevention SOURCES PRINT SHARE Typhoid Fever Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are life-threatening illnesses.
Learn about how they spread, risk factors, and how you can prevent infections.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Global Typhoid Fever Vaccination Laboratory Information Publications REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi VIEW ALL View All Data Summary: Emerging Strain of Salmonella Typhi (REPJPP01) Public Health JULY 14, 2025 HIGHLIGHTS REPJPP01 is an emerging strain of extensively drug-resistant Salmonella Typhi, the bacteria that cause typhoid fever.
This strain has caused illnesses in the United States since 2018.
REPJPP01 has caused illness in travelers to Pakistan and neighboring countries and in people who did not leave the United States.
Commonly recommended antibiotics may not effectively treat REPJPP01 infections.
Getting vaccinated against typhoid fever before international travel—especially to South Asia—and practicing safe eating and drinking habits during travel can prevent illness.
At a glance Bacteria Salmonella Serotype Typhi Emerging strain REPJPP01 Antibiotic resistance profile Extensively drug resistant First U.S.
detection February 2018 Illnesses reported in PulseNet 173 Data last updated December 31, 2024 Key findings What is a REP strain?
Learn about REP strains if you are unfamiliar with them.
REPJPP01 is an emerging strain of Salmonella Typhi, the bacteria that cause typhoid fever.
This strain was first identified in Pakistan in 2016, and illness caused by this strain was first reported in the United States in 2018.
CDC monitors this strain due to its unusual resistance pattern—it was the first strain of Salmonella Typhi in Pakistan to show resistance to ceftriaxone, an antibiotic commonly recommended for treatment of typhoid fever.
Most REPJPP01 isolates also are resistant to ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
Isolates resistant to all 5 of these antibiotics are commonly called extensively drug-resistant, or XDR.
Antibiotics are recommended for all patients with typhoid fever.
Commonly recommended antibiotics may not effectively treat REPJPP01 infections, and results from antimicrobial susceptibility testing should be used to guide treatment when possible.
Illnesses caused by this strain occur year-round but are most common in summer and winter.
In the past, the REPJPP01 strain has spread to people in the United States during travel to Pakistan and neighboring countries.
This strain is relatively diverse genetically.
Bacteria in REPJPP01 are within 16 allele differences of one another by whole genome sequencing, which is more diverse than typical typhoid fever outbreaks in which bacteria generally fall within 5 allele differences of one another.
Increased diversity can occur over time as strains pass among human hosts in diverse settings with different selective pressures.
What the data show Epidemiology Lab-confirmed REPJPP01 infections 173 As of December 31, 2024, information on laboratory-confirmed REPJPP01 infections in 173 U.S.
patients was reported to PulseNet, a national laboratory network that tests for and tracks enteric pathogens in humans.
Lab-confirmed cases comprise only a portion of the true number of illnesses.
Some people with typhoid fever do not seek medical care and even fewer submit a clinical specimen for testing.
Morbidity and mortality 91% of ill people were hospitalized for a median of 8 days (interquartile range, 6–11 days).
No patients died.
Age and sex The median age of ill people was 11 years (interquartile range, 5–23 years), and 51% were female.
Isolate source The isolate source was blood in 87%, stool in 12%, and urine in 1% of cases.
Travel Among 166 ill people who provided travel information, 91% traveled internationally in the 30 days before illness began.
Vaccination Only 4% of ill people reported receiving a typhoid vaccine in the five years before their illness began.
Summary of international travel in the 30 days before illness began: REPJPP01 Year Travel destination(s) Reported illnesses 2018 Pakistan 10 2019 Pakistan 31 2019 Pakistan, United Arab Emirates 2 2019 Iraq, Pakistan 1 2019 Norway, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 1 2019 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates 1 2019 Pakistan, Turkey 1 2019 No international travel 1 2020 Pakistan 16 2020 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 1 2020 No international travel 8 2021 Pakistan 16 2021 Pakistan, United Arab Emirates 1 2021 No international travel 1 2021 Unknown 1 2022 Pakistan 25 2022 Afghanistan 1 2022 Germany, Pakistan 1 2022 Maldives, Pakistan 1 2022 Pakistan, Turkey 1 2022 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 1 2023 Pakistan 22 2023 Afghanistan, United Arab Emirates 1 2023 India 1 2023 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 1 2023 No international travel 2 2023 Unknown 3 2024 Pakistan 9 2024 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 2 2024 Bhutan, India 1 2024 Iraq, Pakistan 1 2024 Pakistan, Turkey 1 2024 No international travel 3 2024 Unknown 3 Timeline People with typhoid fever caused by the REPJPP01 strain, by month of isolate collection, 2018–2024 Map Typhoid fever caused by the REPJPP01 strain, by state, 2018–2024 Selected publications Extensively drug-resistant typhoid fever in the United States Extensively drug-resistant Salmonella Typhi infections among U.S.
residents without international travel Update on extensively drug-resistant Salmonella Typhi infections among travelers to or from Pakistan and report of ceftriaxone-resistant Salmonella Typhi infections among travelers to Iraq—United States, 2018–2019 Emergence of extensively drug-resistant Salmonella Typhi infections among travelers to or from Pakistan—United States, 2016–2018 Emergence of an extensively drug-resistant Salmonella Typhi clone harboring a promiscuous plasmid encoding resistance to fluoroquinolones and third-generation cephalosporins Outbreak investigation of ceftriaxone-resistant Salmonella Typhi and its risk factors among the general population in Hyderabad, Pakistan: a matched case-control study Laboratory data Whole genome sequencing analysis Bacteria in REPJPP01 are within 16 allele differences of one another by core genome multilocus sequence typing (cgMLST) , which is more diverse than typical typhoid fever outbreaks, in which bacteria generally fall within 5 allele differences of one another.
Due to the clonal nature of Salmonella Typhi, 36 additional isolates that are related to REPJPP01 isolates are within the same 16-allele range, but these isolates lack ceftriaxone resistance.
Most patients with ceftriaxone-susceptible infections also traveled to Pakistan in the 30 days before their illness began.
Summary of international travel in the 30 days before illness began: ceftriaxone-susceptible isolates related to REPJPP01 Year Travel destination(s) Reported illnesses 2018 Pakistan 1 2019 Pakistan 1 2020 Canada, Pakistan 1 2020 Pakistan 1 2020 No international travel 4 2020 Unknown 1 2021 Pakistan 4 2021 No international travel 1 2022 Pakistan 8 2022 Unknown 1 2023 Pakistan 10 2023 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia 1 2023 Unknown 1 2024 Pakistan 1 Genomic information The National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) advances science and health by providing access to biomedical and genomic information.
Resource View the full single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) cluster within NCBI's platform by accessing the isolates browser and clicking the link underneath the "SNP Cluster" column.
SNP cluster: PNUSAS044905 Antimicrobial-resistant isolates The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) is a national public health surveillance system that tracks antimicrobial resistance for certain intestinal bacteria from ill people in the United States.
The NARMS program helps protect public health by providing information about emerging antimicrobial resistance, the ways in which resistance is spread, and how resistant infections differ from susceptible infections.
Antibiotics are recommended for all patients with typhoid fever.
REPJPP01 infections have developed antimicrobial resistance, which means that certain drugs may no longer be effective for treatment.
Bacteria from most (89%) ill people's samples were extensively drug-resistant to ampicillin, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
More information about treatment of typhoid fever is available.
Percentage of Salmonella Typhi REPJPP01 isolates from ill people that were antimicrobial-resistant, by antibiotic (173 isolates), as of December 31, 2024 — NARMS Collaborate with CDC Interested in collaborating on a project related to this strain?
Contact CDC at REPStrains@cdc.gov.
About the data Expand All Epidemiology Timeline Map Antimicrobial-resistant isolates Resources For travelers About typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever Food and drink considerations when traveling Travel Health Notice: Extensively drug-resistant typhoid fever in Pakistan For clinicians and public health professionals Clinical guidance for typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever Typhoid & paratyphoid fever | CDC Yellow Book Food & water precautions for travelers | CDC Yellow Book Updated recommendations for the use of typhoid vaccine — Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, United States (2015) Suggested citation Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Data Summary: Emerging Strain of Salmonella Typhi (REPJPP01) Linked to Travel to Pakistan.
ON THIS PAGE At a glance Key findings What the data show Collaborate with CDC About the data Resources Suggested citation Surveillance SOURCES PRINT SHARE Typhoid Fever Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are life-threatening illnesses.
Learn about how they spread, risk factors, and how you can prevent infections.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Global Typhoid Fever Vaccination Laboratory Information Publications REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 9, 2024 Selected Typhoid Fever and Paratyphoid Fever Publications WHAT TO KNOW These publications on typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever address topics such as epidemiology, illnesses and outbreaks, vaccination, antimicrobial resistance, and more.
Users can search for publications and sort them by title, publication date, and category.
Publications RELATED PAGES Surveillance Global Typhoid Fever Vaccination Laboratory Information REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi VIEW ALL Typhoid Fever REPJPP01 Salmonella Typhi SOURCES PRINT SHARE Typhoid Fever Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are life-threatening illnesses.
Learn about how they spread, risk factors, and how you can prevent infections.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo Datos de los CDC muestran mejoras en la salud mental de los jóvenes, pero también la necesidad de escuelas más seguras y que presten más apoyo ENGLISH (US) COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Nuevos datos de los CDC publicados hoy destacan mejoras en la salud mental entre algunos adolescentes de los Estados Unidos, incluidas disminuciones en la cantidad de estudiantes que se sienten constantemente tristes o desesperanzados.
Para publicación inmediata: 6 de agosto del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286  6 de agosto del 2024.
Nuevos datos de los CDC publicados hoy destacan mejoras en la salud mental entre algunos adolescentes de los Estados Unidos, incluidas disminuciones en la cantidad de estudiantes que se sienten constantemente tristes o desesperanzados.
Sin embargo, el informe también destaca aumentos preocupantes en la cantidad de adolescentes que reportan experiencias de violencia en la escuela y ausentismo debido a preocupaciones por su seguridad.
El informe de hoy proporciona un análisis detallado de los comportamientos y experiencias relacionados con la salud de los estudiantes de escuela secundaria superior en todo el país, al comparar los datos de la Encuesta sobre los Comportamientos de Riesgo en los Jóvenes del 2021 con los del 2023.
También proporciona tendencias en los datos a 10 años por sexo, raza y grupo étnico, así como por identidad sexual y de género.
A medida que los estudiantes regresan a la escuela, estos datos son fundamentales para destacar los desafíos que enfrentan millones de jóvenes para que las comunidades puedan abordar mejor su salud y seguridad.
"Una de nuestras principales prioridades en los CDC es mejorar la salud mental de las personas en los Estados Unidos", dijo Debra Houry, M.D., M.P.H., funcionaria médica principal y subdirectora de programas y ciencias de los CDC.
"Los datos publicados hoy muestran mejoras en varios parámetros que miden el bienestar mental de los jóvenes; un progreso que nos puede servir de base.
Sin embargo, aún queda mucho por hacer.
Todos los niños deberían sentirse seguros y apoyados, y los CDC continuarán su trabajo para que estos datos se transformen en medidas de acción hasta que logremos esa meta", agregó.
Las principales mejoras en la salud mental de los jóvenes del 2021 al 2023 incluyen: Disminuciones en el porcentaje de estudiantes que tenían constantes sentimientos de tristeza o desesperanza (del 42 % al 40 %).
Disminuciones en el porcentaje de estudiantes mujeres que tenían constantes sentimientos de tristeza o desesperanza (del 57 % al 53 %) y que consideraron seriamente suicidarse (del 30 % al 27 %).
Disminuciones en el porcentaje de estudiantes hispanos que se sentían constantemente tristes o desesperanzados (del 46 % al 42 %), que tenían mala salud mental (del 30 % al 26 %), que consideraron seriamente suicidarse (del 22 % al 18 %) y que hicieron un plan para suicidarse (del 19 % al 16 %).
Disminuciones en el porcentaje de estudiantes de raza negra que intentaron suicidarse (del 14 % al 10 %) y que se lesionaron al tratar de suicidarse (del 4 % al 2 %).
A pesar de estos signos positivos, hay aumentos en el porcentaje de estudiantes que reportan violencia y preocupaciones por su seguridad en la escuela o camino a la escuela: Aumentos en el porcentaje de estudiantes que fueron amenazados o lesionados con un arma en la escuela (del 7 % al 9 %).
Aumentos en el porcentaje de estudiantes que fueron acosados en la escuela (del 15 % al 19 %).
Aumentos en el porcentaje de estudiantes que faltaron a clases debido a preocupaciones por su seguridad ya fuera en la escuela o camino a la escuela (del 9 % al 13 %).
El informe de hoy también recalca disparidades significativas en la salud, en particular entre estudiantes mujeres y LGBTQ+ de escuela secundaria superior, que enfrentan tasas más altas de violencia, mala salud mental y pensamientos y comportamientos suicidas que sus compañeros.
En el 2023, casi tres de cada 10 estudiantes LGBTQ+ fueron acosados en la escuela, y dos de cada 10 intentaron suicidarse.
"Hemos hecho algunos avances al abordar estos problemas en los últimos años, lo que demuestra que no son insuperables.
Sin embargo, todavía queda mucho trabajo por delante", dijo la directora de la División de Salud Escolar y de Adolescentes de los CDC, Kathleen Ethier, Ph.D.
"En vista del rol vital que tienen las escuelas para fomentar la salud y el bienestar, es fundamental abordar la violencia y las preocupaciones de seguridad en la escuela", afirmó.
El programa de los CDC Lo que Funciona en las Escuelas (What Works in Schools) ayuda a fomentar la salud y el bienestar de los adolescentes al apoyar a los distritos escolares para que proporcionen educación sobre la salud de calidad, vinculen a los jóvenes con los servicios de salud necesarios, y hagan que los entornos escolares sean más seguros y brinden más apoyo.
Este programa tiene un impacto positivo en muchos de los comportamientos y experiencias presentados en el informe de hoy.
Los CDC han recopilado y analizado los datos sobre la salud y el bienestar de los jóvenes por más de tres décadas.
Los datos analizados provienen de la Encuesta sobre los Comportamientos de Riesgo en los Jóvenes, que monitorea los comportamientos y las experiencias de los adolescentes relacionados con la salud con el paso del tiempo.
Esta encuesta identifica problemas emergentes y nos ayuda a entender los temas relacionados con la salud que afectan a los jóvenes, como la salud mental.
En general, proporciona el mejor panorama de lo que está sucediendo a nivel nacional, estatal y local.
Recursos adicionales Cómo fomentar la salud mental y el bienestar en las escuelas: una guía de medidas para los líderes de las escuelas y los distritos puede ayudar a las escuelas a aprovechar lo que ya están haciendo para fomentar la salud mental de los estudiantes y encontrar estrategias nuevas para llenar los vacíos.
Prevención de la violencia en la práctica (Violence Prevention in Practice) | VetoViolence (cdc.gov) se enfoca en TOMAR MEDIDAS DE ACCIÓN para seleccionar e implementar las estrategias presentadas en los Recursos para la acción de la División de Prevención de la Violencia (DVP).
El Recurso para la acción para la prevención de la violencia juvenil (cdc.gov) representa un grupo selecto de estrategias basadas en la mejor evidencia disponible para ayudar a las comunidades y a los estados a mejorar su enfoque en las actividades de prevención que tengan el mayor potencial para prevenir la violencia juvenil y sus consecuencias.
Comuníquese con la Línea de Prevención del Suicidio y Crisis 988 si tiene distrés relacionado con la salud mental o está preocupado por un ser querido que podría necesitar apoyo en una crisis.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar HOJA INFORMATIVA: Respuesta de los Estados Unidos al brote del clado I de la viruela símica (mpox) en varios países africanos Aviso de investigación de los CDC: Tortugas pequeñitas, cuya venta como mascotas es ilegal, están otra vez causando enfermedades por Salmonella en niños pequeños Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionando vacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionandovacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Artículos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sala de Prensa de los CDC EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Artículos VER TODO Temas relacionados: NCHS Pressroom | NIOSH Newsroom | GHC Newsroom Ver todo ENGLISH (US) El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionando vacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo DECLARACIÓN PARA LOS MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Pese a los éxitos históricos, todavía hay brechas que afectan a los niños que viven por debajo del nivel de pobreza y a los que no tienen seguro médico.
Para publicación inmediata: 13 de agosto del 2024 Departamento de Relaciones con los Medios de Comunicación de los CDC (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov  Cuando hace 30 años se aprobó la legislación que creó el Programa Vacunas para Niños (VFC, por sus siglas en inglés) se dio un paso histórico para mejorar la vida de los niños al proporcionar las vacunas recomendadas sin costo para los niños elegibles.
Las vacunas de rutina son la mejor defensa contra las enfermedades.
El Programa VFC se estableció para garantizar que los niños que viven por debajo del nivel de pobreza y aquellos que no tienen seguro médico tengan acceso a vacunas vitales y que salvan vidas, que les pueden proteger su salud durante toda la vida.
“Por 30 años, el Programa Vacunas para Niños ha estado proporcionando vacunas que salvan vidas a los niños de nuestra nación sin costo”, dijo la Dra.
Deb Houry, la funcionaria médica principal de los CDC.
“Gracias al apoyo del Congreso y de colaboradores dedicados en todo el país, hemos prevenido más de 1.1 millones de muertes en niños nacidos durante la era del Programa VFC.
No hay mejor momento que ahora, mientras las familias planifican el regreso a la escuela, para continuar este esfuerzo que mantiene a nuestros niños a salvo de enfermedades y los prepara para la temporada de virus del otoño y el invierno”, agregó.
Casi 90 % de los niños elegibles para el Programa VFC nacidos entre el 2011 y el 2020 recibieron la vacuna contra el sarampión, las paperas y la rubéola (MMR), según un nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC.
No hubo diferencias en la recepción de la vacuna MMR entre los niños elegibles para el VFC nacidos en el 2020 por raza y grupo étnico, situación de pobreza y residencia urbana o rural.
Esto destaca los esfuerzos del Programa VFC por lograr y mantener el estatus del sarampión como eliminado en los Estados Unidos.
Además, el nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC muestra que la vacunación infantil de rutina contra el rotavirus aumentó del 65 al 71 % entre los niños nacidos entre el 2011 y el 2020, lo cual demuestra el avance hacia el logro de una alta cobertura de vacunación (proporción de niños vacunados) para todas las inmunizaciones de rutina.
También, un informe de los CDC, publicado el 8 de agosto del 2024, encontró que entre los niños nacidos desde 1994 hasta el 2023, la vacunación infantil de rutina habría prevenido aproximadamente 508 millones de casos de enfermedad, 32 millones de hospitalizaciones y 1 129 000 muertes, con un resultado de ahorros para la sociedad de casi $2.7 billones, incluidos ahorros directos de $540 miles de millones.
A pesar de estos éxitos, el nuevo informe de Signos Vitales de los CDC muestra que todavía se necesita aumentar la cantidad de niños que completan sus series de vacunas y se necesita llegar a los niños que viven por debajo del nivel de pobreza y los que no tienen seguro médico.
Solo el 61 % de los niños elegibles para el VFC (nacidos en el 2020) recibieron 7 vacunas seleccionadas (la "serie de 7 vacunas combinadas") para cuando cumplieron 2 años.
Esta serie incluye todas las dosis recomendadas de la vacuna de toxoides diftérico y tetánico y vacuna acelular contra la tosferina (DTaP), la vacuna contra los poliovirus, la vacuna que contiene el antígeno del sarampión, la vacuna conjugada contra la Haemophilus influenzae tipo b (Hib), la vacuna contra la hepatitis B, la vacuna contra la varicela y la vacuna antineumocócica conjugada (PCV).
Para estas vacunas, la cobertura entre los niños elegibles para el VFC nacidos en el 2020 fue de alrededor del 90 % para las primeras dosis (vacuna contra la varicela, MMR) y para las series administradas temprano en la vida (vacunas contra los poliovirus y contra la hepatitis B).
La cobertura de vacunación fue más baja (74 a 77 %) para las vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis, con al menos una de las dosis recomendadas después de los 12 meses de edad (DTaP, PCV y Hib).
Esto parece indicar que los niños enfrentan dificultades para recibir las vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis, al igual que las dosis en el segundo año de vida.
La cobertura de vacunación fue menor entre los niños sin seguro médico que entre los niños con cobertura de Medicaid.
Es más probable que los niños sin seguro médico vivan al nivel de la línea federal de pobreza o por debajo y que no los haya visto un proveedor de atención médica en el último año.
También es menos probable que completen las series de vacunas que requieren múltiples dosis.
Los niños elegibles para el VFC que viven por debajo del nivel de la línea federal de pobreza tuvieron menor cobertura para la vacuna contra el rotavirus y la serie de siete vacunas combinadas en comparación con los niños elegibles para el VFC que viven en el nivel de pobreza o sobre este.
A pesar de que el Programa VFC proporciona vacunas infantiles recomendadas sin costo, a los niños que no están cubiertos por Medicaid elegibles para VFC, incluidos aquellos que no tienen seguro médico, se les puede cobrar un costo de administración de la vacuna, y es posible que también haya costos por la visita al consultorio o por los servicios no relacionados con las vacunas que reciban durante la visita.
Ampliar Entre los nacidos en el 2020, la cobertura de la vacuna contra el rotavirus (hasta los 8 meses de vida) fue del 83 % para los no elegibles para el VFC frente al 71 % para los elegibles para el VFC.
Entre los nacidos en el 2020, la cobertura de la ser...
Mostrar más Los proveedores de atención médica pueden ayudar a reducir las oportunidades perdidas de vacunación administrando las vacunas para poner al día a todos los niños que no las hayan recibido.
El Programa VFC juega un papel vital para aumentar y mantener la cobertura de la vacunación de todas las vacunas, incluidas las vacunas contra la influenza (gripe) y el COVID-19.
Al intensificar los esfuerzos se debe garantizar que los padres de los niños elegibles para el Programa VFC sepan que existe, confíen en el Programa y que sus hijos puedan recibir todas las vacunas recomendadas.
Los proveedores de atención médica pueden: Ofrecer información correcta sobre los beneficios de la vacunación.
Aplicar a los niños las vacunas para ponerse al día y revisar cuáles necesitan, incluidas aquellas que los protegen en la temporada de virus del otoño, que incluyen los virus de la influenza y otros respiratorios.
Fortalecer las relaciones con las familias.
Usar sistemas de recordatorios o llamadas para informar a los padres sobre las vacunas que sus hijos deban recibir pronto o las que se les hayan pasado.
Los CDC administran el Programa Vacunas para Niños a nivel nacional y proporcionan fondos operacionales a 61 programas de inmunización estatales, locales y territoriales.
Los beneficiarios de los fondos implementan y supervisan el Programa VFC en sus respectivas áreas.
El Gobierno federal compra vacunas pediátricas con descuento y las envía directamente a los proveedores de vacunas inscritos en el VFC para aliviar la carga fiscal de la compra y distribución de las vacunas.
El Programa VFC ayuda a asegurar que todos los niños tengan una mejor oportunidad de recibir las vacunas recomendadas a su debido tiempo.
Para obtener más información sobre la elegibilidad de los niños para el VFC, visite la página Programa Vacunas para Niños (VFC): información para los padres | Programa VFC | CDC.
Si usted es un proveedor de atención médica interesado en inscribirse en el Programa VFC para ayudar a garantizar que todas las familias puedan obtener las vacunas que necesitan, visite la página Programa Vacunas para Niños (VFC): información para los proveedores | CDC.
Para obtener más información acerca de este informe, visite 
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Artículos La administración Biden-Harris otorga más de $558 millones para mejorar la salud materna, incluidos $440 millones para apoyar a personas embarazadas, mamás de recién nacidos, bebés y niños a través de programas voluntarios de visitas domiciliarias que han demostrado mejorar la salud materna e infantil, el desarrollo infantil y la preparación escolar HOJA INFORMATIVA: Respuesta de los Estados Unidos al brote del clado I de la viruela símica (mpox) en varios países africanos Aviso de investigación de los CDC: Tortugas pequeñitas, cuya venta como mascotas es ilegal, están otra vez causando enfermedades por Salmonella en niños pequeños Transcripción de la teleconferencia del informe de Signos Vitales: El Programa Vacunas para Niños celebra 30 años proporcionando vacunas que salvan la vida a niños y sin costo Datos de los CDC muestran mejoras en la salud mental de los jóvenes, pero también la necesidad de escuelas más seguras y que presten más apoyo VER TODO Sala de Prensa de los CDC ### DEPARTAMENTO DE SALUD Y SERVICIOS HUMANOS Ya sean enfermedades que comienzan en el país o en el extranjero, curables o prevenibles, crónicas o agudas, causadas por actividad humana o por un ataque deliberado, los expertos de los CDC, que son líderes a nivel mundial, protegen vidas y su sustento, la seguridad nacional y la economía de los EE.
al proporcionar información oportuna, fácil de entender y práctica, y al identificar y responder rápidamente a las enfermedades, incluidos los brotes.
Los CDC impulsan la ciencia, la investigación en salud pública y la innovación de datos en las comunidades de todo el país al invertir en iniciativas locales para proteger la salud de todas las personas.
Datos de los CDC muestran mejoras en la salud mental de los jóvenes, pero también la necesidad de escuelas más seguras y que presten más apoyo FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sala de Prensa de los CDC Noticias de salud pública de los CDC, comunicados de prensa, noticias de salud pública del Gobierno, noticias sobre temas médicos y enfermedades, ideas para historias, fotos.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Updated Recommendations for the Use of Typhoid Vaccine — Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, United States, 2015 Weekly March 27, 2015 / 64(11);305-308 Brendan R.
Jackson, MD1, Shahed Iqbal, PhD2, Barbara Mahon, MD1 (Author affiliations at end of text) These revised recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices update recommendations published in MMWR in 1994 (1) and include updated information on the two currently available vaccines and on vaccine safety.
They also include an update on the epidemiology of enteric fever in the United States, focusing on increasing drug resistance in Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi, the cause of typhoid fever, as well as the emergence of Salmonella serotype Paratyphi A, a cause of paratyphoid fever, against which typhoid vaccines offer little or no protection.
Introduction Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A, Paratyphi B (tartrate negative), and Paratyphi C cause a protracted bacteremic illness referred to respectively as typhoid and paratyphoid fever, and collectively as enteric fever.
Enteric fever can be severe and even life-threatening.
It is most commonly acquired from water or food contaminated by the feces of an infected person.
The incubation period is 6–30 days, and illness onset is insidious, with gradually increasing fatigue and fever.
Malaise, headache, and anorexia are nearly universal.
A transient macular rash can occur.
When serious complications (e.g., intestinal hemorrhage or perforation) occur, it is generally after 2–3 weeks of illness.
Untreated illness can last a month (2).
Typhoid fever is uncommon in the United States, with an average of about 400 cases reported annually during 2007–2011 (5).
Approximately 90% of U.S.
Most travelers (≥55%) reported that their reason for travel was visiting friends or relatives (5).
Even short-term travel to high-incidence areas is associated with risk for typhoid fever (6).
CDC recommends typhoid vaccination for travelers to many Asian, African, and Latin American countries, but, as of 2010, no longer recommends typhoid vaccine for travelers to certain Eastern European and Asian countries (7); the most recent pre-travel vaccination guidelines are available at 
The importance of vaccination and other preventive measures for typhoid fever is heightened by increasing resistance of Salmonella serotype Typhi to antimicrobial agents, including fluoroquinolones, in many parts of the world (8).
Paratyphoid fever, caused primarily by Salmonella enterica serotype Paratyphi A, but also by serotypes Paratyphi B (tartrate negative) and C, is an illness clinically indistinguishable from typhoid fever (9).
Serotype Paratyphi A is responsible for a growing proportion of enteric fever cases in many countries, accounting for as much as half of the cases (8).
Neither typhoid vaccine available in the United States is licensed by the Food and Drug Administration for prevention of paratyphoid fever, although limited observational data suggest the oral, live-attenuated Ty21a vaccine might offer some protection against Paratyphi B (tartrate negative) (10).
Typhoid Vaccines Two typhoid vaccines are available for use in the United States: 1) a Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine for parenteral use (Typhim Vi, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur) and 2) an oral live-attenuated vaccine (Vivotif, manufactured from the Ty21a strain of Salmonella serotype Typhi by PaxVax).
A parenteral heat-phenol-inactivated whole-cell vaccine first licensed by Wyeth in 1952 and associated with high rates of fever and systemic reactions was discontinued in 2000 (6).
No efficacy studies among travelers from nonendemic areas are available for either vaccine, though a Ty21a vaccine challenge study among North American volunteers demonstrated significant protection from disease (11,12).
The two currently available vaccines have moderate efficacy in populations where typhoid is endemic.
A trial in Kolkata, India, of the Vi polysaccharide vaccine found a protective effectiveness of 61% (CI = 41%–75%) among all participants (14).
Studies conflict regarding the effectiveness of the Vi vaccine in young children.
The trial in Kolkata, which included adults as well as children, found 80% (CI = 53%–91%) effectiveness among those 2–4 years (14), whereas a trial in Karachi, Pakistan, which included only children 2–16 years, showed no protection among children 2–4 years (15).
Herd effects might have contributed to the high effectiveness observed among young children in the Kolkata trial.
An observational study of the effectiveness of typhoid vaccination in U.S.
travelers estimated 80% protection; however, this study addressed typhoid vaccination in general, not specific vaccines (16).
Protein-conjugated Vi polysaccharide vaccines have been shown to have high efficacy in young children (17) and have been licensed in other countries (18), but are not currently licensed or available in the United States.
Vaccine Usage Routine typhoid vaccination is not recommended in the United States.
Vaccination is recommended for the following groups: Travelers to areas where there is a recognized risk for exposure to Salmonella serotype Typhi (the most recent guidelines are available at 
Risk is greatest for travelers who have prolonged exposure to possibly contaminated foods and beverages, although short-term travelers are also at risk (6).
Most travel-associated typhoid fever cases in the United States occur among travelers who are visiting friends or relatives; many travelers in this group do not seek pre-travel health care (19).
Multidrug-resistant strains of Salmonella serotype Typhi have become common in many regions (8), and cases of typhoid fever that are treated with drugs to which the organism is resistant can be fatal.
Travelers should be cautioned that typhoid vaccination is not a substitute for careful selection of food and beverages.
Typhoid vaccines are not 100% effective, and vaccine-induced protection can be overwhelmed by large inocula of Salmonella serotype Typhi.
Microbiologists and other laboratory workers routinely exposed to cultures of Salmonella serotype Typhi or specimens containing this organism or who work in laboratory environments where these cultures or specimens are routinely handled.
Choice of Vaccine Parenteral Vi polysaccharide and oral Ty21a are both acceptable forms of typhoid vaccine.
The Vi polysaccharide vaccine is administered as a single injection and is approved for adults and children aged ≥2 years.
The oral Ty21a vaccine is administered in 4 doses on alternating days over 1 week and is approved for adults and children aged ≥6 years.
Immunocompromised persons should not use Ty21a because it is a live-attenuated vaccine.
Because antibacterial drugs might be active against the vaccine strain and reduce immunogenicity, the Ty21a vaccine should not be administered to persons taking these medications.
Vaccine Administration Vi polysaccharide Primary vaccination with Vi polysaccharide consists of one 0.5-mL (25-µg) dose administered intramuscularly.
This vaccine should be given at least 2 weeks before potential exposure.
Ty21a Primary vaccination with live-attenuated Ty21a vaccine consists of one enteric-coated capsule taken on alternate days (day 0, 2, 4, and 6), for a total of four capsules.
The capsules must be kept refrigerated (not frozen).
Each capsule should be taken with cool water no warmer than 98.6°F (37.0°C), approximately 1 hour before a meal.
All doses should be completed at least 1 week before potential exposure.
Repeat Doses If continued or repeated exposure to Salmonella serotype Typhi is expected, repeat doses of typhoid vaccine are needed to maintain immunity (Table).
An optimal revaccination schedule for the Vi polysaccharide vaccine has not been established; however, the manufacturer recommends a repeat dose every 2 years after the primary dose if continued or renewed exposure is expected (20).
The manufacturer of Ty21a recommends revaccination with the entire 4-dose series every 5 years if continued or renewed exposure to Salmonella serotype Typhi is expected (21).
Adverse Reactions Evidence from trials and postmarketing studies suggest that parenteral Vi vaccines are usually tolerated well (20).
In a manufacturer-funded postmarketing safety study conducted in 11 U.S.
travel clinics, the most common reactions were injection site pain (77%), tenderness (75%), and muscle aches (39%) (22).
In postmarketing surveillance of the Vi vaccine (administered alone or simultaneously with other vaccines) during 1995–2002, an estimated 0.3 serious events* per 100,000 doses distributed were reported to the U.S.
Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS) (23).
Among the 321 VAERS reports of events occurring after Vi vaccination, the most commonly reported symptoms included injection site reactions, fever, headache, rash, urticaria, abdominal pain, and nausea.
It is important to note that adverse events reported to VAERS might not be caused by the vaccine.
In a meta-analysis of Ty21a vaccine placebo-controlled trials, fever was more common among vaccinees (RR = 1.8; CI = 1.0–3.1), but other adverse events occurred with equal frequency among groups receiving vaccine and placebo; risk for any mild adverse event was higher among vaccinees (RR = 1.7; CI = 1.0–2.7) (13).
In a combined analysis of data from a pilot study and a field trial, fewer than 10% of vaccinees reported abdominal pain (6.4%), nausea (5.8%), headache (4.8%), fever (3.3%), diarrhea (2.9%), vomiting (1.5%), or skin rash (1.0%) (21,24,25).
One nonfatal case of anaphylactic shock, which was considered to be an allergic reaction to the vaccine, was reported to the manufacturer (21).
In VAERS postmarketing surveillance of the Ty21a vaccine (administered alone or simultaneously with other vaccines) during 1991–2002, an estimated 0.6 serious events per 100,000 doses distributed were reported (23).
Among the 345 reports of events occurring after Ty21a vaccination, the most commonly reported symptoms included diarrhea, nausea, fever, abdominal pain, headache, rash, vomiting, and urticaria (23).
Precautions and Contraindications No data have been reported on the use of either typhoid vaccine in pregnant women.
In general, live vaccines like Ty21a are contraindicated in pregnancy (26).
Vi polysaccharide vaccine should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed (20).
Because Ty21a is a live-attenuated vaccine, antimicrobial agents might interfere with vaccine activity.
To be sure the vaccine is fully effective, the vaccine manufacturer advises that Ty21a should not be given until at least 3 days after the last dose of antimicrobial agent and, if possible, antimicrobial agents should not be started within 3 days of the last dose of Ty21a vaccine (27).
A longer interval should be considered for long-acting antimicrobials (e.g., azithromycin).
The antimalarial agents mefloquine and chloroquine and the combinations atovaquone/proguanil and pyrimethamine/sulfadoxine can, at doses used for prophylaxis, be administered together with the Ty21a vaccine; however, the manufacturer advises that other antimalarial agents only be administered at least 3 days after the last vaccine dose (27).
Ty21a vaccine can be administered simultaneously or at any interval before or after other live vaccines (injectable or intranasal) or immune globulin if indicated (26).
Ty21a should not be administered to persons during an acute febrile illness or acute gastroenteritis (21).
Live-attenuated Ty21a vaccine should not be used by immunocompromised persons.
The Vi vaccine is theoretically safer for this group.
Although the Ty21a strain can be shed in the stool of vaccinees, transmission has not been documented (21).
The Ty21a strain has not been isolated from blood cultures after vaccination (21).
Both the Vi polysaccharide and Ty21a vaccines are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine.
Acknowledgments ACIP members (membership roster for July 2014–June 2015 available at 
1Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; 2Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC (Corresponding author: Brendan R.
Jackson, iyn0@cdc.gov, 404-639-0536) References CDC.
Typhoid immunization—recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR Recomm Rep 1994;43(No.
CDC health information for international travel 2014.
Available at 
Stuart BM, Pullen RL.
Typhoid; clinical analysis of 360 cases.
Arch Intern Med (Chic) 1946;78:629–61.
Bhan MK, Bahl R, Bhatnagar S.
Typhoid and paratyphoid fever.
Lancet 2005;366:749–62.
National Typhoid and Paratyphoid Fever Surveillance.
Available at 
Steinberg EB, Bishop R, Haber P, et al.
Typhoid fever in travelers: who should be targeted for prevention?
Clin Infect Dis 2004;39:186–91.
Johnson KJ, Gallagher NM, Mintz ED, Newton AE, Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE.
From the CDC: new country-specific recommendations for pre-travel typhoid vaccination.
J Travel Med 2011;18:430–3.
Crump JA, Mintz ED.
Global trends in typhoid and paratyphoid Fever.
Clin Infect Dis 2010;50:241–6.
Maskey AP, Day JN, Phung QT, et al.
Salmonella enterica serovar Paratyphi A and S.
enterica serovar Typhi cause indistinguishable clinical syndromes in Kathmandu, Nepal.
Clin Infect Dis 2006;42:1247–53.
Levine MM, Ferreccio C, Black RE, Lagos R, San Martin O, Blackwelder WC.
Ty21a live oral typhoid vaccine and prevention of paratyphoid fever caused by Salmonella enterica Serovar Paratyphi B.
Clin Infect Dis 2007;45(Suppl 1):S24–8.
Whitaker JA, Franco-Paredes C, del Rio C, Edupuganti S.
Rethinking typhoid fever vaccines: implications for travelers and people living in highly endemic areas.
J Travel Med 2009;16:46–52.
Gilman RH, Hornick RB, Woodard WE, et al.
Evaluation of a UDP-glucose-4-epimeraseless mutant of Salmonella typhi as a liver oral vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1977;136:717–23.
Anwar E, Goldberg E, Fraser A, Acosta CJ, Paul M, Leibovici L.
Vaccines for preventing typhoid fever.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014;1:CD001261.
Sur D, Ochiai RL, Bhattacharya SK, et al.
A cluster-randomized effectiveness trial of Vi typhoid vaccine in India.
N Engl J Med 2009;361:335–44.
Khan MI, Soofi SB, Ochiai RL, et al.; DOMI Typhoid Karachi Vi Effectiveness Study Group.
Effectiveness of Vi capsular polysaccharide typhoid vaccine among children: a cluster randomized trial in Karachi, Pakistan.
Vaccine 2012;30:5389–95.
Mahon BE, Newton AE, Mintz ED.
Effectiveness of typhoid vaccination in US travelers.
Vaccine 2014;32:3577–9.
Lin FYC, Ho VA, Khiem HB, et al.
The efficacy of a Salmonella typhi Vi conjugate vaccine in two-to-five-year-old children.
N Engl J Med 2001;344:1263–9.
Development of Vi conjugate — a new generation of typhoid vaccine.
Expert Rev Vaccines 2013;12:1273–86.
Bacaner N, Stauffer B, Boulware DR, Walker PF, Keystone JS.
Travel medicine considerations for North American immigrants visiting friends and relatives.
JAMA 2004;291:2856–64.
Available at  .
Available at  .
Marcus LC, Froeschle JE, Hill DR, et al.
Safety of Typhim Vi vaccine in a postmarketing observational study.
J Travel Med 2007;14:386–91.
Begier EM, Burwen DR, Haber P, Ball R; Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System Working Group.
Postmarketing safety surveillance for typhoid fever vaccines from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, July 1990 through June 2002.
Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:771–9.
Simanjuntak CH, Paleologo FP, Punjabi NH, et al.
Oral immunisation against typhoid fever in Indonesia with Ty21a vaccine.
Lancet 1991;338:1055–9.
Levine MM, Black RE, Ferreccio C, et al.
The efficacy of attenuated Salmonella typhi oral vaccine strain Ty21a evaluated in controlled field trials.
In: Development of vaccines and drugs against diarrhea.
11th Noble Conference, Stockholm, 1985.
Holmgren J, Lindberg A, Mollby R (eds).
Lund, Sweden: Studentlitteratur; 1986:90–101.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
General recommendations on immunization—recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR Recomm Rep 2011;60(No.
RR-2):1–64.
Available at  .
* Serious adverse events were defined as reports of death, hospitalizations, prolongation of hospitalization, permanent disability, life-threatening illness, or congenital anomaly.
Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children, adolescents, and adults are developed by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
ACIP is chartered as a federal advisory committee to provide expert external advice and guidance to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on use of vaccines and related agents for the control of vaccine-preventable diseases in the civilian population of the United States.
Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children and adolescents are harmonized to the greatest extent possible with recommendations made by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG).
Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in adults are harmonized with recommendations of AAFP, ACOG, and the American College of Physicians (ACP).
ACIP recommendations approved by the CDC Director become agency guidelines on the date published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR).
Additional information is available at 
What is currently recommended?
In 1994, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) approved recommendations for typhoid vaccination, stating that typhoid vaccine is indicated for U.S.
travelers to certain countries, close contacts of chronic carriers, and certain laboratory workers.
Since 1994, the parenteral heat-phenol-inactivated whole-cell vaccine has been discontinued.
Why are the recommendations being modified now?
The updated recommendations contain new data on the epidemiology of typhoid fever and vaccine effectiveness and safety.
No substantive changes have been made to ACIP typhoid vaccine recommendations apart from removing the discontinued parenteral whole-cell vaccine from the list of available typhoid vaccines.
The two typhoid vaccines available in the United States are parenteral Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine and oral live-attenuated Ty21a vaccine.
What are the new recommendations?
Typhoid vaccine continues to be recommended for U.S.
travelers to certain countries (the most recent guidelines are available at  close contacts of chronic carriers, and certain laboratory workers.
Updated dosage and schedules for typhoid fever vaccination — Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, United States, 2015 Vaccination Age (yrs) Dosage Dose/mode of administration No.
of doses Dosing schedule Boosting interval Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine Primary series ≥2 0.50 mL* 1 1 dose — Booster ≥2 0.50 mL* 1 1 dose Every 2 yrs Oral live-attenuated Ty21a vaccine Primary series ≥6 1 capsule† 4 Days 0, 2, 4, 6 — Booster ≥6 1 capsule† 4 Days 0, 2, 4, 6 Every 5 yrs * Intramuscularly.
† Each orally administered capsule contains 2.0–10.0 x 109 viable Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi Ty21a and 5–50 x 109 nonviable Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi Ty21a.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Food and Water Precautions for Travelers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Anna N.
Chard and Vincent Hill Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should recommend safe food and water practices during international travel.
Introduction Contaminated food and water pose an infectious disease risk to travelers due to the numerous pathogens and toxins that can be transmitted.
Additional information on pathogens and toxins associated with travelers' diarrhea and treatment options can be found in the Travelers' Diarrhea and Post-Travel Diarrhea chapters.
Food Travelers should select food with care.
While abroad, travelers should follow food safety practices recommended in the United States.
Raw food, including unpasteurized dairy products, is especially likely to be contaminated.
Raw or undercooked meat, fish, shellfish, eggs, and produce can be contaminated with pathogens, and some fish harvested from tropical waters can transmit toxins that survive cooking.
In areas where hygiene and sanitation are inadequate or unknown, travelers should take additional food safety precautions, as described in Box 1.7.1.
Box 1.7.1: Safe food practices for travelers in areas with inadequate or unknown hygiene and sanitation Avoid Usually safe Salads, uncooked vegetables, raw and unpeeled fruits, and unpasteurized fruit juices Fruits that can be peeled, which are safest when rinsed with safe water and peeled by the person who eats them; vegetables should be rinsed with safe water before cooking Raw or undercooked meat, fish, shellfish, eggs Fully cooked meat and eggs Unpasteurized milk and milk products Pasteurized milk and milk products In restaurants, inadequate refrigeration and lack of food safety training among staff can result in transmission of pathogens or their toxins.
Consumption of food and beverages obtained from street vendors increases the risk of illness.
In general, fully cooked foods that are served hot and foods that travelers carefully prepare themselves are safest.
Travelers should exercise the same caution about food and water served on flights as they do for restaurants.
Additionally, travelers should not bring perishable food back to their home country without refrigeration.
Travelers can use insulated packaging and materials, such as frozen gel packs, to keep perishable food cold in transit.
Travelers are prohibited from bringing some food items into the United States from abroad; refer to the United States Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service guide for travelers for more information.
Practicing careful hygiene when using a breast pump and washing pump parts using a safe source of water can reduce the risk of getting pathogens into the milk.
For details, see How to Keep Your Breast Pump Kit Clean: The Essentials.
Formula For infants who are formula-fed, parents should consider using liquid, ready-to-feed formula that is sterile.
When preparing formula from commercial powder, mixing it with a safe source of water following the manufacturer's instructions usually is sufficient.
Although no powdered formula is sterile, travelers should consider packing enough for their trip because manufacturing standards vary widely around the world.
Boil water and wait about 5 minutes before mixing with formula powder; after mixing, wait for the prepared formula to cool before feeding the baby.
Prepared formula should be used within 2 hours of preparation or refrigerated for a maximum of 24 hours.
After feeding, any remaining liquid or prepared formula should be discarded.
Once opened, formula containers should be stored in a cool, dry place with the lid tightly closed and used within 1 month.
For more on infant feeding hygiene: How to Clean, Sanitize, and Store Infant Feeding Items Infant Formula Preparation and Storage Cronobacter: Prevention and Control Water Swallowing, having contact with, or inhaling aerosols of contaminated water can transmit pathogens that cause diarrhea, vomiting, or ear, eye, skin, respiratory, or nervous system infections.
Travelers should follow safe water practices recommended in the United States while abroad.
Drinking water and other beverages In many parts of the world, particularly where water treatment, sanitation, and hygiene are inadequate, tap water can contain disease-causing agents, including bacteria, viruses, parasites, and chemical contaminants.
Consequently, tap water might be unsafe for drinking, preparing food and beverages, making ice, cooking, and brushing teeth.
Infants, young children, pregnant women, older people, and immunocompromised people (e.g., persons with HIV, on chemotherapy, or who take certain immune-suppressing medications) might be especially susceptible to illness.
Travelers should avoid drinking or putting tap water into their mouths unless they are reasonably certain the water is safe.
Similarly, travelers should avoid ice unless they are reasonably certain it was made using safe water.
Box 1.7.2 provides tips and recommendations of other safe water and beverage practices for travelers.
Box 1.7.2 Safe water and beverage practices: a checklist of recommendations for travelers In areas where tap water could be unsafe, use only commercially bottled water from an unopened, factory-sealed container or water that has been adequately disinfected for drinking, preparing food and beverages, making ice, cooking, and brushing teeth.
Avoid getting tap water in your mouth when showering or bathing.
Many people choose to disinfect or filter their water when traveling to destinations where safe tap water might not be available.
Beverages made with water that has just been boiled (e.g., tea, coffee) generally are safe to drink.
Unless further disinfected, tap water that is safe for drinking is not sterile and should never be used for sinus or nasal irrigation or rinsing, including use in neti pots and for ritual ablution.
Never use tap water to clean or rinse contact lenses.
Water that looks cloudy or discolored could be contaminated with chemicals and will not be made safe by boiling or disinfection.
In these situations, use bottled water.
When served in unopened, factory-sealed cans or bottles, carbonated beverages, commercially prepared fruit drinks, water, alcoholic beverages, and pasteurized drinks generally can be considered safe.
Because surfaces on the outside of cans and bottles might be contaminated, these surfaces should be wiped clean and dried before opening or drinking directly from the container.
Beverages that might not be safe for consumption include iced drinks and fountain drinks or other drinks made with tap water.
Because ice might be made from contaminated water, ask that all beverages be served without ice.
The alcohol content of alcoholic beverages will not kill pathogens in ice made from contaminated water.
Recreational water Pathogens that cause gastrointestinal, respiratory, skin, ear, eye, and neurologic illnesses can be transmitted via contaminated recreational freshwater or marine water.
Water from inadequately treated pools, hot tubs, or splash pads can also be contaminated.
Recreational water contaminated by human or animal feces, sewage, or wastewater runoff can appear clear but still contain disease-causing infectious or chemical agents.
Ingesting even small amounts of such water can cause illness.
Infectious pathogens (e.g., Cryptosporidium) can survive for days, even in properly operated pools, splash pads, and hot tubs.
To protect themselves and other people, travelers should take health and safety precautions before, during, and after entering recreational water, as described in Box 1.7.3.
Additional guidance can be found on CDC's Healthy Swimming website.
Box 1.7.3: Healthy swimming for travelers Do not Enter recreational water if you have diarrhea.
Enter pools, splash pads, and hot tubs with improper chlorine or bromine levels, with improper pH, with cloudy water, with loose or broken drain covers, or without a lifeguard and safety equipment (e.g., rescue pole or ring).
Swim or wade near storm drains, in lakes or rivers after heavy rainfall, or in water that smells bad, looks discolored, or has algal mats, foam, or scum on the surface.
Enter freshwater streams, canals, or lakes in schistosomiasis-endemic areas of Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and South America (see Schistosomiasis).
Avoid Entering hot tubs if you are at increased risk for legionellosis (e.g., people ages ≥50 years, those with weakened immune systems).
Entering recreational water if you have open wounds.
If an existing wound (e.g., from a recent surgery, piercing, or tattoo) or wound sustained while swimming comes into contact with untreated recreational water, it should be washed thoroughly with soap and water to reduce the chance of infection.
Cover wounds completely with a waterproof bandage if there is a chance it could come in contact with recreational water.
Do A self-inspection of the recreational water venue for health and safety information.
Consider using test strips to make sure the water has a proper free chlorine or bromine level and pH.
Wear a nose clip, hold your nose shut, and avoid jumping or diving into warm freshwater to help prevent water from going up your nose.
Maintaining proper pH and chlorine or bromine concentration is necessary for preventing transmission of most infectious pathogens in pools, splash pads, and hot tubs.
If travelers would like to test recreational water before use, the CDC recommends a free chlorine concentration of 3–10 parts per million (ppm) in hot tubs (or 4–8 ppm total bromine) and 1–10 ppm free chlorine in pools and splash pads (2–10 ppm for those using chlorine stabilizer, such as cyanuric acid).
Travelers can purchase test strips at most large retail companies, hardware stores, or pool supply stores.
When hot tubs are not properly operated and chlorine or bromine concentrations are not adequately maintained, pathogens such as Pseudomonas, which can cause "hot tub rash" or otitis externa, and Legionella, which can cause life-threatening pneumonia, can multiply.
In freshwater recreational areas, there are many naturally occurring pathogens that can cause disease.
Naegleria fowleri is a parasite found around the world in warm freshwater, including lakes, rivers, ponds, hot springs, and locations with water warmed by discharge from power plants and industrial complexes.
Naegleria fowleri has also been found in inadequately chlorinated water, including in pools, splash pads, and a surf venue.
People become infected when water containing Naegleria fowleri goes up their nose, usually while swimming.
Healthcare professionals should also inform travelers that Naegleria fowleri infection has been linked to use of contaminated tap water for sinus or nasal irrigation.
Even though Naegleria fowleri infection is rare, it is almost always fatal.
In seawater or brackish water, pathogens such as Leptospira and Vibrio vulnificus can infect people through open wounds, potentially causing serious and life-threatening disease.
People with underlying health conditions, such as liver disease, cancer, diabetes, and immunocompromising conditions, are at higher risk of V.
vulnificus wound infection.
Handwashing Travelers should follow recommended handwashing practices by washing their hands with soap and water before preparing or eating food, after using the bathroom or changing diapers, before and after caring for someone who is ill, and after contact with animals or animal environments.
When soap and water are not available, travelers should use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing ≥60% alcohol and then wash hands with soap and water when possible.
Hand sanitizer is not as effective as handwashing for removing some pathogens, like Cryptosporidium or norovirus, and does not work well when hands are visibly dirty or greasy.
Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Brigette Gleason and Patricia M.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Food Water Handwashing Acknowledgements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Typhoid and Paratyphoid Fever Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Louise K.
Francois Watkins, David C.
Shih, and Layne Dorough Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent typhoid and paratyphoid fever in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A, B, and C Endemicity Africa Asia (greatest risk for infection is in South Asia) Latin America Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Travelers to low- and middle-income countries where typhoid and paratyphoid fever are endemic Travelers to mass gatherings Travelers visiting friends and relatives Prevention methods Follow safe food and water precautions Typhoid fever is a vaccine-preventable disease Diagnostic support A clinical laboratory certified in moderate complexity testing; state health department Infectious agent Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi, Paratyphi A, Paratyphi B (tartrate negative), and Paratyphi C cause potentially severe and occasionally life-threatening bacteremic illnesses referred to as typhoid fever (for Typhi serotype) and paratyphoid fever (for Paratyphi serotypes), and collectively as enteric fever.
Other Salmonella serotypes, collectively known as nontyphoidal Salmonella, typically cause gastroenteritis as the main symptom.
Transmission Humans are the only source of the bacteria that cause enteric fever; no animal or environmental reservoirs have been identified.
Typhoid and paratyphoid fever are acquired through consumption of water or food contaminated by feces of an acutely infected or convalescent person, or a person with chronic, asymptomatic carriage.
Risk for infection is high in low- and middle-income countries with endemic disease, poor access to safe food and water, and poor sanitation.
Mass gatherings in endemic areas have been linked to outbreaks of enteric fever.
Sexual contact, particularly among men who have sex with men, is a rare route of transmission.
Epidemiology An estimated 9.2 million cases of typhoid fever and 3.8 million cases of paratyphoid fever occur worldwide each year, causing an estimated 133,000 deaths.
In 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic, approximately 450 culture-confirmed cases of typhoid fever and 130 cases of paratyphoid fever caused by Paratyphi A were reported in the United States; during 2020–2021 when U.S.
travel patterns were influenced by COVID-19, there were approximately 150–160 cases of typhoid fever and approximately 30–50 cases of paratyphoid fever caused by Paratyphi A each year.
Paratyphoid fever caused by Paratyphi B or Paratyphi C is rarely reported.
Approximately 85% of typhoid fever and 80% of paratyphoid fever cases in the United States occur among international travelers; of those, more than 70% are in travelers returning from South Asia, primarily Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan.
Other travelers with enteric fever have visited Africa, Latin America, and Southeast Asia, or less commonly, East Asia and the Caribbean.
Travelers visiting friends and relatives are at increased risk because they might be less careful with food and water while abroad than other travelers and might not seek pre-travel health consultation or typhoid vaccination.
Clinical presentation The typical incubation period for typhoid fever is 6–30 days, compared with 1–10 days for paratyphoid fever, although the range may vary with host factors and infectious dose.
Illness onset is insidious, with gradually increasing fatigue and a fever that increases daily from low-grade to 39–40°C (approximately 102–104°F) by the third or fourth day of illness.
Fever is commonly lowest in the morning, peaking in the late afternoon or evening.
Anorexia, headache, and malaise are nearly universal, and abdominal pain, constipation, and diarrhea are common.
Diarrhea and vomiting are more common in children than in adults.
People also can have dry cough, fatigue, myalgias, and sore throat.
Hepatosplenomegaly often can be detected.
A transient, maculopapular rash of rose spots can occasionally be seen on the trunk.
The clinical presentation is often confused with malaria.
Healthcare professionals should suspect enteric fever in a person with a history of travel to an endemic area who is not responding to antimalarial medication.
Serious complications of typhoid fever occur in 10–15% of hospitalized patients, generally after 2–3 weeks of illness, and include life-threatening gastrointestinal hemorrhage, intestinal perforation, and encephalopathy.
Paratyphoid fever appears to have a case-fatality ratio roughly half that of typhoid fever.
Diagnosis Typhoid and paratyphoid fever are nationally notifiable diseases in the United States.
Healthcare professionals should report cases to their state or local health department.
Identification of a domestically acquired case should prompt a public health investigation to prevent other cases.
Blood culture Patients with typhoid or paratyphoid fever typically have bacteremia; blood culture is therefore the preferred method of diagnosis.
A single culture is positive in only approximately 50% of cases, however.
Multiple blood cultures increase the sensitivity and might be required for diagnosis.
Depending on the blood culture system used, cultures might need to be held and observed for up to 7 days before reporting a negative result.
Although bone marrow culture is more invasive (and therefore less commonly performed), it increases the sensitivity to approximately 80% of cases and is relatively unaffected by previous or concurrent antibiotic use.
Stool culture is not usually positive during the first week of illness and has less diagnostic sensitivity than blood culture.
Rapid diagnostic tests Globally, several commercial rapid diagnostic tests for typhoid fever are available, but their sensitivity and specificity are not optimal.
The Widal test measures antibody titers; it is unreliable but widely used in low- and middle-income countries because of its low cost.
Serologic tests do not distinguish acute from past infection or vaccination and lack specificity; thus, blood culture remains the preferred method to diagnose acute infections.
Clinical diagnosis Poor sensitivity and specificity of rapid antibody tests and the time it takes to obtain a positive culture mean that the initial diagnosis must often be made clinically.
Typhoid and paratyphoid fever are clinically indistinguishable.
The combination of risk factors for infection and gradual onset of fever that increases in severity over several days should raise suspicion of enteric fever.
Treatment Antibiotic therapy shortens the clinical course of enteric fever and reduces the risk of complications and death.
Treatment decisions are complicated by high rates of resistance to many antimicrobial agents, and antimicrobial treatment should be guided by susceptibility testing.
A thorough travel history can inform empiric treatment choices while awaiting culture results.
Multidrug-resistant infection Established resistance to older antibiotics (e.g., ampicillin, chloramphenicol, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) has led to these agents being recommended only as alternative antibiotics for infections with known susceptibility.
Multidrug-resistant (MDR) Typhi with resistance to all three of these antibiotics has been present for decades.
Regional estimates for MDR enteric fever range from 9% of isolates in South Asia (2015–2018) to 36–59% in parts of Africa (2010–2014).
Fluoroquinolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin) are still considered the treatment of choice for fluoroquinolone-susceptible infections in adults.
Most Typhi and Paratyphi A infections in the United States are fluoroquinolone-nonsusceptible, however.
However, resistance to both agents is now emerging in the United States.
In 2016, an outbreak of extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid fever began in Sindh Province, Pakistan; cases among travelers have since been documented globally.
These XDR Typhi isolates are typically resistant to ampicillin, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole but susceptible to azithromycin and carbapenem antibiotics.
The first U.S.
cases of XDR typhoid fever associated with travel to Pakistan were diagnosed in 2018.
residents, including 12 cases among patients who did not travel internationally in the 30 days before illness began.
Ceftriaxone resistance also has been identified in Typhi isolates from U.S.
travelers returning from Iraq, India, and Afghanistan.
Additionally, resistance to azithromycin has been identified among Typhi and Paratyphi strains isolated from patients in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United States.
Empiric and directed treatment Empiric treatment should be guided by the patient's travel history.
For patients with suspected typhoid fever who traveled to Iraq or Pakistan, or who did not travel internationally before their illness began, empirically treat uncomplicated illness with azithromycin and treat complicated illness with a carbapenem.
Ceftriaxone and azithromycin remain appropriate empiric treatment options for travelers returning from most other countries.
Once culture results are available, use susceptibility information to guide treatment.
Case reports have suggested that patients with XDR Typhi infection who do not improve on a carbapenem alone might benefit from the addition of a second antibiotic (e.g., azithromycin).
Updated information about antimicrobial resistance among isolates from U.S.
patients with enteric fever in the United States can be found at the NARMS website.
Cases unresponsive to treatment Patients treated with antimicrobial agents can continue to have fever for 3–5 days, but the maximum temperature generally decreases each day.
Patients sometimes feel worse during the first few days after commencing antibiotic treatment.
If fever in a person with typhoid or paratyphoid infection does not subside within 5 days of initiating antibiotic therapy, consider treatment with alternative antibiotics or begin looking for a persistent focus of infection (e.g., an abscess or an infection in a bone, joint, or other extraintestinal site).
Relapse, reinfection, and chronic carriage Relapse, reinfection, and chronic carriage also can occur.
Relapse occurs in ≤10% of patients 1–3 weeks after clinical recovery, requiring further antibiotic treatment.
An estimated 1–4% of treated patients become asymptomatic chronic carriers (defined as people who excrete the organism in stool for ≥12 months); a prolonged antibiotic course is usually required to eradicate the organism.
Healthcare professionals should follow state and local health department guidance on any follow-up testing required for the patient to return to work, school, or day care.
Prevention Food and water precautions Safe food and water precautions and frequent handwashing, especially before meals, are important in preventing both typhoid and paratyphoid fever.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends typhoid immunization for those 2 years and older traveling to areas with a recognized risk of exposure.
However, typhoid vaccines are not 100% effective, and a large bacterial inoculum can overwhelm vaccine-induced immunity.
Therefore, vaccinated travelers should follow recommended food and water precautions to prevent enteric fever and other infections.
No vaccines are available for paratyphoid fever; thus, food and water precautions are the only prevention methods.
Vaccines Indications Typhoid vaccine is recommended for travelers 2 years and older going to areas where risk for exposure to Typhi is recognized.
Destination-specific vaccine recommendations are available at the CDC Travelers' Health website (see Map 4.20.1).
Two typhoid vaccines are licensed for use in the United States: Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine (ViCPS) (Typhim Vi, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur) for intramuscular use; and live attenuated vaccine (Vivotif, manufactured from the Ty21a strain of serotype Typhi by PaxVax) for oral use.
Both vaccines are unconjugated, which means the polysaccharide antigens are not paired with a protein to elicit a strong response from the immune system.
Because these vaccines protect 50–80% of recipients, remind travelers that typhoid immunization is not 100% effective and take the opportunity to reinforce safe food and water precautions.
Neither vaccine is licensed to prevent paratyphoid fever, although limited data from efficacy trials suggest that the Ty21a vaccine might provide some cross-protection against Paratyphi B.
Three typhoid Vi conjugate vaccines (TCV) have been licensed in India: Peda Typh (manufactured by Biomed); Typbar-TCV (manufactured by Bharat Biotech); and Zyvac TCV (manufactured by Zydus Cadila).
Typbar-TCV also is licensed in Cambodia, Nepal, and Nigeria.
As of April 2025, four TCVs have been prequalified by the World Health Organization and these vaccines are being introduced into childhood immunization programs in typhoid-endemic countries.
TCVs are not currently licensed or available in the United States.
Administration For information on dosage, administration, and revaccination for the two typhoid vaccines licensed in the United States, see Table 4.20.1.
The time required for primary vaccination differs, as do the lower age limits for each.
Table 4.20.1: Typhoid fever vaccines licensed in the United States Vaccine Approved Ages for Use Dose and Route of Administration Number of Doses Dosing Interval Repeat Doses VI Capsular polysaccharide vaccine (ViCPS)—Typhim Vi Primary series ≥2 years 0.5 mL, IM injection 1 N/A N/A Booster ≥2 years 0.5 mL, IM injection 1 N/A Every 2 years Live attenuated Ty21a vaccine—Vivotif1 Primary series ≥6 years 1 capsule, orally every other day2 4 48 hours N/A Booster ≥6 years 1 capsule, orally every other day2 4 48 hours Every 5 years Notes Abbreviations: IM, intramuscular; N/A, not applicable.
1Vaccine must be kept refrigerated at 2°C–8°C (35°F–46°F).
2Capsules should be taken with cool liquid, no warmer than 37°C (98.6°F).
Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine Primary vaccination with ViCPS consists of one 0.5 mL (25 µg) dose administered intramuscularly ≥2 weeks before travel.
The vaccine is approved for use in people ≥2 years old.
A dose is recommended every 2 years for those who remain at risk.
Live attenuated Ty21A vaccine Primary vaccination with Ty21a vaccine consists of four capsules, one taken every other day.
The capsules should be kept refrigerated (not frozen), and all four doses must be taken to achieve maximum efficacy.
Each capsule should be swallowed whole (not chewed) and taken with cool liquid no warmer than 37°C (98.6°F), approximately 1 hour before a meal and ≥2 hours after a previous meal.
Dosing guidelines suggest avoiding alcohol consumption 1 hour before and 2 hours after administration, because alcohol can disintegrate the enteric coating.
Travelers should complete the Ty21a vaccine regimen ≥1 week before potential exposure.
The approach for addressing a missed oral vaccine dose or taking a dose late is undefined.
Some suggest that minor deviations in the dosing schedule (e.g., taking a dose 1 day late) might not alter vaccine efficacy; no studies have shown the effect of such deviations, however.
If travelers do not complete four doses as directed, they might not achieve an optimal immune response.
The vaccine is approved for use in people ≥6 years old.
A booster is recommended every 5 years for those who remain at risk.
Adverse reactions Adverse reactions most often associated with ViCPS vaccine include headache, injection-site reactions, fever, and general discomfort.
Adverse reactions to Ty21a vaccine are rare and mainly consist of abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, and rash.
Report adverse reactions to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System by calling 800-822-7967.
Precautions and contraindications Neither the ViCPS nor the Ty21a vaccine should be given to people with an acute febrile illness; in addition, Ty21a is not recommended for use in people with acute gastroenteritis.
Live vaccines, including Ty21a vaccine, should not be given to pregnant women or immunocompromised people, including those with HIV.
No information is available on the safety of ViCPS in pregnancy; consider ViCPS for pregnant women when the benefits of vaccination outweigh potential risks (e.g., when the likelihood of exposure to Typhi is high).
The intramuscular vaccine (ViCPS) presents a theoretically safer alternative than the live, oral vaccine (Ty21a) for immunocompromised travelers.
The Ty21a vaccine can be administered to household contacts of immunocompromised people; although vaccine organisms can be shed transiently in the stool of vaccine recipients, secondary transmission of vaccine organisms has not been documented.
The only contraindication to vaccination with ViCPS vaccine is a history of severe local or systemic reactions after a previous dose.
Theoretical concerns have been raised about the immunogenicity of Ty21a vaccine in people concurrently receiving antimicrobial agents, live vaccines, or immune globulin.
The growth of the live Ty21a strain is inhibited in vitro by various antimicrobial agents.
Due to the proguanil component, atovaquone-proguanil should be administered only if 10 days or more have elapsed since the final dose of Vivotif was ingested; mefloquine and chloroquine can be administered together with the Ty21a vaccine.
Ty21a vaccine can be administered simultaneously or at any interval before or after live virus vaccines (e.g., measles-mumps-rubella, oral polio, or yellow fever vaccines).
Available data do not suggest that simultaneous administration of live virus vaccines decreases the immunogenicity of the Ty21a vaccine.
If typhoid vaccination is warranted, it should not be delayed because of administration of viral vaccines.
Simultaneous administration of the Ty21a vaccine and immune globulin does not appear to pose a problem.
Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Grace D.
Appiah and Michael Hughes.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Acknowledgements RELATED PAGES Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Schistosomiasis Tick-Borne Encephalitis Tuberculosis Yellow Fever Zika VIEW ALL Yellow Book Yellow Fever SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Norovirus Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Sara A.
Mirza and Jan Vinjé Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent norovirus in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Norovirus Endemicity Worldwide Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection All travelers Prevention methods Practice good hand hygiene with soap and water, if possible Carefully clean and disinfect surfaces and toilet areas contaminated with fecal material or vomit Diagnostic support A clinical laboratory certified in moderate complexity testing, state and local health departments during outbreak investigations Infectious agent Norovirus infections are caused by non-enveloped, single-stranded RNA viruses of the genus Norovirus, which in the past have also been referred to as Norwalk-like viruses, Norwalk viruses, and small round-structured viruses.
Norovirus is one of the leading causes of acute gastroenteritis, sometimes referred to as stomach flu; however, norovirus has no biologic association with influenza or influenza viruses.
Transmission Norovirus transmission occurs primarily through the fecal-oral route, either through direct person-to-person contact or indirectly via contaminated food or water.
Norovirus also is spread through fomites and aerosols of vomitus.
Epidemiology Norovirus outbreaks frequently occur in settings (e.g., cruise ships, camps, dormitories, long-term care facilities, and hotels) where people live or congregate in close quarters and can easily infect each other.
Norovirus is a commonly reported cause of acute diarrhea among travelers in confined spaces.
Although noroviruses have been detected in different animal species, those viruses are genetically different from the noroviruses infecting humans.
With humans as the only reservoir, risk for infection is present anywhere food is prepared in an unsanitary manner and can become contaminated (e.g., sick food handler stocking a salad bar) or where drinking water is inadequately treated.
Contaminated ready-to-eat cold foods (e.g., salads, sandwiches) are a particular risk.
Raw shellfish, especially oysters, are a frequent source of infection because viral particles in contaminated water concentrate in the gut of these filter feeders.
Contaminated ice has also been implicated in outbreaks.
Viral contamination of fomites can persist during and after outbreaks and can be a source of infection.
On cruise ships, for instance, environmental contamination has caused recurrent norovirus outbreaks on successive cruises with newly boarded passengers.
Transmission of norovirus on airplanes has been reported during domestic and international flights and likely results from contamination of lavatories or from symptomatic passengers in the cabin.
Norovirus infections are common throughout the world.
Globally, most children will have ≥1 infection by the time they are 5 years old.
Norovirus infections can occur year-round, but, in temperate climates, activity peaks during the winter.
Noroviruses are common in low-, middle-, and high-income countries.
Globally, norovirus causes approximately 18% of acute gastroenteritis cases and is responsible for tens of thousands of deaths annually.
In the United States, norovirus is the leading cause of medically attended gastroenteritis in young children and of outbreaks of gastroenteritis in people of all ages; norovirus causes approximately 19–21 million illnesses a year and approximately 50% of all foodborne disease outbreaks.
Clinical presentation Infected people usually experience acute onset of vomiting and non-bloody diarrhea.
The incubation period ranges from 12 to 48 hours.
Other symptoms include abdominal cramps, nausea, and sometimes a low-grade fever.
Illness is generally self-limited, and most patients fully recover in 1–3 days.
In some cases, especially among young children, the elderly, and immunocompromised individuals, dehydration can occur which may require medical attention.
Diagnosis Norovirus infection is generally diagnosed based on clinical symptoms.
Diagnostic testing is not widely performed to guide clinical management of individual patients, but laboratory testing of stool specimens to confirm the etiology and typing of strains is used to identify disease clusters during outbreak investigations.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based multipathogen diagnostic panels are increasingly available for clinical purposes.
These panels have good sensitivity and specificity to detect norovirus.
The most common diagnostic test used at state public health laboratories and at CDC is real-time reverse-transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), which rapidly and reliably detects the virus in stool specimens.
Several commercial enzyme immunoassays also are available, but the specificity and sensitivity of these assays are relatively poor compared with RT-qPCR.
CDC recommends contacting local health departments for outbreak investigation and specimen testing.
Whole stool specimens are preferred for testing; vomitus specimens might be acceptable.
For more information on laboratory diagnostic testing and specimen collection, see CDC's webpages on Lab Testing and Test Directory.
Treatment Supportive care is the mainstay of norovirus treatment, especially oral or intravenous rehydration.
Antidiarrheals and antiemetics are not recommended for the routine management of acute gastroenteritis in children.
For adults, antiemetic, antimotility, and antisecretory agents can be useful adjuncts to rehydration.
Antibiotics are not useful in treating patients with norovirus disease.
Prevention No norovirus vaccine or antiviral agents are currently available, but, as of April 2025, at least two vaccines are in clinical trials.
Candidate vaccines against GI/GII genotypes have indicated cross-protection against non-GII.4 viruses, indicating that some level of cross-protection is possible.
Further studies to estimate vaccine efficacy and length of protection are underway.
Noroviruses are common and highly contagious, but travelers can minimize their risk for infection by frequently and properly washing hands and avoiding possibly contaminated food and water.
If clean water is available, washing hands with soap and water for ≥20 seconds is considered the most effective way to reduce norovirus contamination.
While alcohol-based hand sanitizers might be useful between handwashing sessions, they should not be considered a substitute for soap and water.
In addition to handwashing, people traveling together can use measures to prevent transmission of noroviruses, including carefully cleaning up fecal material or vomit and disinfecting contaminated surfaces and toilet areas.
Travelers should use products approved by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for norovirus disinfection; alternatively, they can use a dilute bleach solution (5–25 tablespoons of bleach per gallon of water).
Travelers should wash soiled articles of clothing for the maximum available cycle length and machine dry clothing on high heat.
To help prevent the spread of noroviruses, consider isolation, cohorting, or exclusion of symptomatic staff, patients, and visitors in institutional settings, including hospitals, long-term care facilities, schools, and on cruise ships.
Acknowledgments The following author contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Aron Hall.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Acknowledgments RELATED PAGES Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Measles (Rubeola) Meningococcal Disease Poliomyelitis Rabies VIEW ALL Yellow Book Poliomyelitis SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Zika Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Stacey W.
Martin, Dana Meaney-Delman, and J.
Erin Staples Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent Zika in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Zika virus Endemicity Worldwide, periodic outbreaks in tropical and subtropical regions Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Adventure tourists Long-term travelers and expatriates Travelers visiting friends and relatives Pregnant women and women planning pregnancy (infection during pregnancy can cause severe fetal brain defects) Prevention methods Avoid mosquito bites Use condoms or abstain from sex if exposed (or possibly exposed) Diagnostic support A clinical laboratory certified in high complexity testing; state health department; or contact CDC Arboviral Diseases Branch (970-221-6400; dvbid@cdc.gov) Infectious agent Zika virus is a single-stranded RNA virus of the Flaviviridae family, genus Flavivirus.
Transmission Transmission occurs through the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito.
Intrauterine, perinatal, sexual, laboratory, and possible transfusion-associated transmission have been reported.
Zika virus has been detected in breast milk, but the risk for transmission through breastfeeding is unknown.
Epidemiology Zika virus occurs in tropical and subtropical regions.
Since 2007, outbreaks of Zika virus disease have occurred throughout the Pacific Islands and in Southeast Asia.
In 2015, Zika virus was identified in the Western Hemisphere, where it spread throughout much of the Americas, resulting in several hundred thousand cases.
Since 2017, the number of reported Zika virus disease cases has declined worldwide.
Occasional increases in cases have been noted from some countries, and cases are infrequently identified in U.S.
international travelers returning from Zika virus–endemic countries.
In 2023, only 7 Zika virus disease cases were reported in U.S.
international travelers.
See current information on Zika virus transmission and travel guidance on CDC's Zika website.
Clinical presentation Most Zika virus infections are either asymptomatic or result in mild clinical illness characterized by acute onset of fever, arthralgia, non-purulent conjunctivitis, and maculopapular rash.
Other symptoms can include edema, headache, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, retro-orbital pain, and vomiting.
Death and severe disease requiring hospitalization are both uncommon.
Guillain-Barré syndrome and rare reports of encephalopathy, meningoencephalitis, myelitis, uveitis, and severe thrombocytopenia have been associated with Zika virus infection.
Zika virus infection during pregnancy can result in congenital Zika virus infection; sequelae include microcephaly with brain and ocular anomalies, other serious neurologic consequences, and fetal loss.
Diagnosis Consider Zika virus infection in patients with acute onset of fever, arthralgia, conjunctivitis, or maculopapular rash who, within 2 weeks of illness onset, lived in or recently traveled to areas with current or past Zika virus transmission or had recent sex with someone who lives in or traveled to those areas.
Because Zika and dengue virus infections have similar clinical presentations, patients with suspected Zika virus infection also should be evaluated for dengue virus infection.
Other considerations in the differential diagnosis include adenovirus, chikungunya, enterovirus, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, Oropouche, parvovirus, rickettsiosis, rubella, and group A streptococcal infections.
Zika virus disease is a nationally notifiable condition.
Report suspected cases of Zika virus infection to state or local health departments to facilitate diagnosis and mitigate the risk for local transmission in areas where Aedes species mosquitoes are active.
State health departments should report laboratory-confirmed cases to CDC according to the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists case definitions.
Diagnostic testing Because Zika and dengue viruses share a similar global geographic distribution and cause infections that can be difficult to differentiate diagnostically, consider the global epidemiology of these two arboviruses when requesting testing and interpreting results.
Zika virus testing guidance is updated as needed to address changes in the epidemiology.
Current testing guidance is provided on the CDC website.
Some state health departments and many commercial laboratories perform Zika virus nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) and IgM testing.
Confirmatory neutralizing antibody testing is available at CDC's Arboviral Diagnostic Reference Laboratory and selected health department laboratories.
Nucleic acid amplification testing NAAT is used to detect Zika viral RNA early in the course of infection and is typically performed on cerebrospinal fluid and serum.
Zika viral RNA has been detected in other specimens including amniotic fluid, whole blood, semen, tissue, and urine.
Due to the temporal nature of Zika viral RNA in the body, a negative NAAT does not always exclude recent Zika virus infection.
For this reason, Zika virus IgM antibody testing might be recommended in certain situations.
Serologic testing Serum IgM antibody testing can detect Zika virus–specific IgM antibodies that typically develop toward the end of the first week of illness and can remain detectable for months to years after infection, making the determination of the timing of infection difficult.
Serum IgM antibody testing can result in a false-positive result due to cross-reacting antibodies against related flaviviruses (e.g., dengue virus, yellow fever virus) and non-specific reactivity.
Plaque reduction neutralization testing can be used to confirm Zika virus infection and can help discriminate between cross-reacting antibodies with other primary flavivirus infections.
However, neutralizing antibodies might still yield cross-reactive results in people previously infected with or vaccinated against a related flavivirus (secondary flavivirus infection).
Treatment No specific antiviral treatment is available for Zika virus disease.
Treatment is generally supportive and can include use of analgesics and antipyretics, fluids, and rest.
Because aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can increase the risk for hemorrhage in patients with dengue, avoid use of these medications until dengue can be ruled out.
Protect people infected with Zika virus from mosquito bites during the first few days of illness to decrease the possibility of further Zika virus transmission.
Carefully evaluate pregnant women with laboratory evidence of Zika virus infection; closely manage these patients during pregnancy and carefully evaluate live-born infants for clinical features associated with intrauterine infection.
See guidance for the diagnosis, evaluation, and management of infants with possible congenital Zika virus infections.
Prevention No vaccine or preventive medication is available for Zika virus.
All travelers to areas with possible Zika virus transmission should take steps to avoid mosquito bites during the day and night to prevent Zika virus and other vector-borne infections.
If used in accordance with the instructions on the product label, there are no restrictions on the use of insect repellents by women who are pregnant.
Advise people with possible Zika virus exposure who want to reduce the risk for sexual transmission of Zika virus to an uninfected partner to use condoms or not have sex following exposure.
The time frames that males and females can transmit Zika virus through sex are different because the virus persists longer in semen than other bodily fluids.
The time frames shown in Table 4.22.1 start as soon as a person departs a location with a risk of Zika transmission, even if asymptomatic, or from the start of their symptoms or the date of Zika diagnosis.
All travelers returning to the United States from an area with current or past transmission should be advised to take steps to prevent mosquito bites for 3 weeks to decrease the possibility of local transmission.
Although blood donations in the United States were previously screened for Zika virus RNA, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration ceased this requirement in 2021 because the virus no longer has sufficient incidence to affect the potential donor population.
Pregnancy Healthcare professionals should review CDC's Zika travel guidance with pregnant women, their partners, and women planning pregnancy before travel.
CDC does not have accurate information on the current risk of Zika virus exposure in many geographic areas.
Recommendations are based on whether travel is planned to a geographic area with an active CDC Zika Travel Health Notice or with current or past Zika virus transmission.
Because Zika infection during pregnancy can cause severe birth defects associated with congenital Zika syndrome, advise women who are pregnant to avoid travel to areas with an active Zika Travel Health Notice.
If a woman who is pregnant chooses to travel, she should be advised to strictly follow recommendations to prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission during and after travel as specified in Table 4.22.1.
Travelers with a pregnant partner should consider the reasons for travel, ability to prevent mosquito bites, and potential risk of transmitting Zika to their pregnant partner.
If they choose to travel to an area with an active Zika Travel Health Notice, advise them to prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission during and after travel.
Pregnant women and their partners considering travel to areas with current or past transmission of Zika virus should be informed of the possible risks to the fetus.
In deciding to travel, they should consider the destination, reason for traveling, and their ability to consistently prevent mosquito bites.
If a pregnant woman or her partner chooses to travel, she should be counseled to strictly prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission during and after travel using the time frames specified in the Prevention section.
Planning pregnancy Women planning to become pregnant and their partners who travel to areas with an active Zika Travel Health Notice should prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission during and after travel and be advised to delay pregnancy following travel using the specified time frames in Table 4.22.1.
Women planning to become pregnant and their partners who travel to areas with current or past Zika virus transmission should prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission during and after travel.
If they are concerned about the risk of Zika, they can consider delaying their pregnancy according to the time frames to prevent sexual transmission.
CDC supports shared patient-provider decision-making to determine time frames to wait before trying to conceive after possible Zika virus exposure.
Some couples might choose to wait shorter or longer periods depending on individual circumstances (e.g., age, fertility, or details of possible exposure), healthcare professional judgment, and an assessment of risks and possible outcomes.
Breastfeeding Mothers are encouraged to breastfeed infants even after possible Zika virus exposure because available evidence indicates the benefits of breastfeeding outweigh the theoretical risks associated with Zika virus infection transmission through breast milk.
Table 4.22.1: Time frames for preventing sexual transmission of Zika virus1 Sex Time Frame2 Male At least 3 months Female At least 2 months Notes 1Methods to reduce sexual transmission of Zika virus include condoms or abstinence.
2Time frames are measured from the date a person departs a location with a risk of Zika transmission (even if asymptomatic) or from the start of symptoms or date of diagnosis.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention RELATED PAGES Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Schistosomiasis Tick-Borne Encephalitis Tuberculosis Typhoid and Paratyphoid Fever Yellow Fever VIEW ALL Yellow Book Health Care Abroad SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Vital Signs CDC Vital Signs Updated Oct.
17, 2024 Print Suicide Risk Is Tied to Local Economic and Social Conditions Rates are lower in counties with more health insurance, internet access, and income One person dies by suicide an average of every 11 minutes.
Data show that higher levels of health insurance, home internet, and income in counties may play a role in reducing the risk of suicide.
Read the latest issue of Vital Signs to learn more about what can be done to lower suicide risk and save lives.
View the latest issue Read the full MMWR ASL video: English | Spanish About Vital Signs The CDC Vital Signs reports cover an important health threat and what can be done to drive down the disease.
email_03 Vital Signs Update Get email updates about Vital Signs Email Address What's this?
Submit Add Vital Signs to your website through our content syndication service.
Vital Signs Issues This filtering area contains options for sorting data dynamically for easy discovery.
Filtering options include search by text, dropdowns for filtering based on various fields, and various sorting.
Search 1 content filters available.
1 of 1 content filters.
Filter by Public Health Category Filter by Public Health Category SubmitClear Found 24 items.
Search results Sort Newest to Oldest Suicide Risk Is Tied to Local Economic and Social Conditions Date: Sep 2024 Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program 30 Years of Protecting Children Date: Aug 2024 Drowning Increases in the U.S.
Date: May 2024 Health-Related Social Needs Can Keep Women from Getting Lifesaving Mammograms Date: Apr 2024 Health Workers Face a Mental Health Crisis Date: Oct 2023 Many Women Report Mistreatment During Pregnancy and Delivery Date: Aug 2023 Eliminating HIV as a Global Public Health Threat Date: Mar 2023 Preventing Bloodstream Infections in People on Dialysis Date: Feb 2023 1 of 3 1 2 3 Vital Signs Playlist View all available Vital Signs Videos on YouTube.
View Videos Archived Content Search for and find historical pages and files.
Please note the content on these pages and files is no longer being updated and may be out of date.
Visit archive.cdc.gov Last Updated Oct.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Yellow Fever APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: J.
Erin Staples and Kevin O’Laughlin Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent yellow fever in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Yellow fever virus Endemicity Sub-Saharan Africa Tropical South America Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Unimmunized people visiting forested or savanna regions of endemic areas, or visiting destinations with ongoing yellow fever outbreaks Prevention methods Avoid insect bites Yellow fever is a vaccine-preventable disease Diagnostic support State health department Contact CDC’s Arboviral Diseases Branch: 970-221-6400; dvbid@cdc.gov Infectious agent Yellow fever (YF) virus is a single-stranded RNA virus that belongs to the genus Flavivirus.
Transmission Vector-borne transmission of YF virus occurs via the bite of an infected mosquito, primarily Aedes or Haemagogus spp.
Non-human primates and humans are the main reservoirs of the virus, and anthroponotic (human-to-vector-to-human) transmission can occur.
YF virus has three transmission cycles: sylvatic (jungle), intermediate (savanna), and urban.
The sylvatic (jungle) cycle involves transmission of virus between non-human primates and mosquito species found in forest canopies, namely Ae.
africanus, Haemagogus spp., and Sabethes spp.
Virus is transmitted from monkeys to humans via mosquitoes when occupational, recreational, or domestic activities encroach into the jungle.
In Africa, an intermediate (savanna) cycle involves transmission of YF virus from tree hole–breeding Aedes spp.
to humans in jungle border areas.
YF virus can be transmitted from monkeys to humans or from human to human via these mosquitoes.
The urban cycle involves transmission of virus between humans and peridomestic mosquitoes, Ae.
Humans infected with YF virus experience the highest levels of viremia shortly before onset of fever and for the first 3–5 days of illness, during which time they can transmit the virus to mosquitoes.
Because of the high level of viremia, solid organ transmission and bloodborne transmission via transfusion or needlesticks theoretically can occur and have occurred with the vaccine virus.
Two cases have been recorded of perinatal transmission of wild-type YF virus from women who developed symptoms of YF around the time of delivery.
Both infants were infected and died of fulminant YF on the 12th and 19th day of life.
Epidemiology YF occurs in Sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America, where it is endemic and intermittently epidemic (see Table 4.21.1 and Table 4.21.2 for lists of countries with risk of YF virus transmission).
Most YF disease in humans is due to sylvatic or intermediate transmission cycles.
Urban YF occurs periodically in Africa and sporadically in the Americas.
In areas of Africa with persistent circulation of YF virus, natural immunity accumulates with age; consequently, infants and children are at greatest risk for disease.
In South America, YF occurs most frequently in unimmunized young adults exposed to mosquito vectors through their work in forested areas.
Risk for travelers A traveler's risk for acquiring YF is determined by their immunization status as well as destination-specific (e.g., local rate of virus transmission) and travel-associated (e.g., exposure duration, occupational and recreational activities, season) factors.
Reported cases of human disease are the principal but crude indicator of disease risk.
Case reports from a destination might be absent because of a low level of transmission, a high level of immunity in the population (e.g., due to vaccination), or failure of local surveillance systems to detect cases.
Because "epidemiologic silence" does not mean absence of risk, travelers should not visit endemic areas without taking protective measures.
YF virus transmission in Africa is seasonal.
In West Africa, YF virus transmission increases during the middle of the rainy season (around August) and peaks during the early dry season (October).
In East Africa, YF virus transmission is generally less predictable because long periods (years) often pass between virus activity in this region; when YF virus transmission occurs in East Africa, seasonality is similar to that in West Africa.
The risk of infection by sylvatic vectors in South America is greatest during the rainy season (January–May, with a peak incidence during February and March).
aegypti can transmit YF virus episodically in both rural and densely settled urban areas, even during the dry season.
During 1970–2015, 11 cases of YF were reported in people from the United States and Europe who traveled to West Africa (6 cases) or South America (5 cases); 8 (73%) died.
Only 1 traveler had a documented history of YF vaccination; that traveler survived.
Starting in 2016, the number of travel-associated YF cases increased substantially, primarily because of outbreaks in Angola and Brazil.
Since 2019, travel-associated cases of YF have again become uncommon likely because of decreases in occurrence of large YF outbreaks and decreases in travel observed during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The risk of acquiring YF during travel is difficult to predict because of variations in ecologic determinants of virus transmission.
For a 2-week stay, the estimated risks for illness and for death due to YF for an unvaccinated traveler visiting an endemic area are as follows: for West Africa, risk for illness is 50 per 100,000 and risk for death is 10 per 100,000; for South America, risk for illness is 5 per 100,000 and risk for death is 1 per 100,000.
These estimates are based on the risk to resident populations, often during peak transmission season, and might not accurately reflect the risk to travelers who have a different immunity profile, who follow mosquito bite precautions, who have less outdoor exposure, or who travel during off-peak periods.
A traveler's risk for becoming infected is likely greater when outbreaks are occurring at their destination.
Table 4.21.1: Countries with risk for yellow fever (YF) virus transmission1 Africa Angola Equatorial Guinea Mauritania2 Benin Ethiopia2 Niger2 Burkina Faso Gabon Nigeria Burundi The Gambia Senegal Cameroon Ghana Sierra Leone Central African Republic Guinea South Sudan Chad2 Guinea-Bissau Sudan2 Congo, Republic of the Kenya2 Togo Côte d’Ivoire Liberia Uganda Democratic Republic of the Congo Mali2 The Americas Argentina2 French Guiana Peru2 Bolivia2 Guyana Suriname Brazil2 Panama2 Trinidad and Tobago2 Colombia2 Paraguay Venezuela2 Ecuador2 Notes 1Last reviewed September 2024.
Defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as countries or areas where YF "has been reported currently or in the past and vectors and animal reservoirs currently exist" as published in January 2023.
See WHO's website on countries with risk of yellow fever transmission and countries requiring yellow fever vaccination (November 2022) .
2Risk of yellow fever virus transmission to humans exists in only part of the country.
For details, see Yellow Fever Vaccine and Malaria Prevention Information, by Country chapter.
Table 4.21.2: Countries with low potential for exposure to yellow fever (YF) virus1 Africa Eritrea2 São Tomé and Príncipe Tanzania Rwanda Somalia2 Zambia2 Notes 1The countries on this list have low potential for exposure to YF virus and are not included on the World Health Organization list of countries with risk for YF virus transmission (Table 4.21.1).
Unless a country requires proof of YF vaccination from all arriving travelers (Table 4.21.4), or specifies otherwise, proof of YF vaccination should not be required for travelers arriving from the countries on this list.
2Classified as "low potential for exposure to YF virus" only in some areas; remaining areas are classified as having no risk of exposure to YF virus.
Clinical presentation Most people infected with YF virus have minimal or no symptoms and are unlikely to seek medical attention.
For those who develop symptomatic illness, the incubation period is typically 3–6 days.
The initial illness is non-specific: backache, chills, fever, headache, myalgia, nausea and vomiting, and prostration.
Most people improve after the initial presentation.
After a brief remission of ≤48 hours, approximately 12% of infected patients progress to a more serious form of the disease, characterized by hemorrhagic symptoms, jaundice, and eventually shock and multisystem organ failure.
The case-fatality rate for severe cases is 30–60%.
Diagnosis YF is a nationally notifiable disease.
A preliminary diagnosis is based on clinical presentation and exposure details.
Perform virus isolation or nucleic acid amplification tests for YF virus or YF viral RNA early in the course of the illness.
By the time more overt symptoms (e.g., jaundice) are recognized, the virus or viral RNA often is no longer detectable; thus, virus isolation and nucleic acid amplification testing should not be used to rule out a diagnosis of YF.
Serologic assays can be used to detect virus-specific IgM and IgG antibodies.
Because of the possibility of cross-reactivity between antibodies against other flaviviruses, more specific antibody testing (e.g., a plaque reduction neutralization test) should be performed to confirm the infection.
Contact your state or local health department or call the CDC Arboviral Diseases Branch at 970-221-6400 for assistance with diagnostic testing for YF virus infections.
Treatment No specific medications are available to treat YF virus infections.
Following the recent large outbreaks in Brazil, a systematic review was conducted on specific treatments for YF, including antiviral agents and other drugs (e.g., ribavirin, sofosbuvir, interferon alpha), plasma exchange/apheresis, and liver transplantation.
None of these treatments were found to improve the outcome of YF cases.
Therefore, treatment is supportive.
Fluids, rest, and use of analgesics and antipyretics might relieve symptoms of aching and fever.
Avoid prescribing medications that can increase the risk for bleeding (e.g., aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs).
During the first few days of illness, protect infected people from further mosquito exposure by keeping them indoors or under a mosquito net, so they do not contribute to the transmission cycle.
Prevention Personal protective measures The best way to prevent mosquito-borne diseases, including YF, is to avoid mosquito bites.
Vaccine YF is preventable by a safe, effective vaccine.
All YF vaccines currently manufactured are live-attenuated viral vaccines.
Only one YF vaccine (YF-VAX, Sanofi Pasteur) is licensed for use in the United States (Table 4.21.3).
Shortages of YF-VAX have occurred in the United States.
From 2015–2021, Stamaril (a YF vaccine comparable to YF-VAX, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur in France) was imported and used under an expanded-access investigational new drug protocol during a U.S.
The different YF vaccine products, including those manufactured outside the United States, have no substantial differences in reactogenicity or immunogenicity.
Consider people who receive YF vaccines licensed in other countries but not approved by the FDA to be protected against YF.
2YF-VAX is available in single-dose and multiple-dose (5-dose) vials.
3For further details regarding revaccination, see the section Booster Doses in this chapter.
Indications for use YF vaccine is recommended for people aged ≥9 months who are living in or traveling to areas with risk for YF virus transmission in Africa or South America.
In addition, some countries require proof of YF vaccination for entry.
For country-specific YF vaccination recommendations and country entry requirements, see Yellow Fever Vaccine and Malaria Prevention Information, by Country.
Because of the risk for serious adverse events after YF vaccination, healthcare professionals should only vaccinate people at risk for YF virus exposure.
To further minimize the risk for serious adverse events, carefully observe the contraindications and consider vaccination precautions before administering YF vaccine (Box 4.21.1).
For additional information, refer to the YF vaccine recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
2Symptoms of HIV are classified in: CDC (1992).
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults (see Table 1 Adults and Adolescents); and Panel on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection 2010 , pp.
3In 2010, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) used this clinical classification of levels of immunosuppression among HIV-infected people to inform yellow fever vaccine recommendations; see Staples, J.
E., Gershman, M., Fischer, M., & Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Yellow fever vaccine: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 59(RR-7), 1–27.
A revised surveillance case definition for HIV infection was published in 2014.
To date, ACIP has not updated YF vaccine recommendations for people infected with HIV.
Administration For all eligible people, subcutaneously administer a single 0.5 mL injection of reconstituted vaccine, which is the standard dose.
Every vaccine vial is supplied with a separate vial of sterile diluent, containing a specific amount of sodium chloride and other excipients; do not use any other product as a substitute diluent.
YF-VAX is a pinkish color before reconstitution and a slight pink-brown suspension after reconstitution.
If the wrong diluent is used, the healthcare professional should contact the manufacturer to determine if revaccination is needed and when it should be administered.
Coadministration with other vaccines Inactivated vaccines No evidence exists that inactivated vaccines interfere with the immune response to YF vaccine.
Therefore, inactivated vaccines can be administered either simultaneously or at any time before or after YF vaccination.
Live attenuated viral vaccines ACIP recommends that YF vaccine be given at the same time as other live viral vaccines.
If simultaneous administration is not possible, wait one month between vaccinations because the immune response to a live viral vaccine could be impaired if it is administered within one month of another live viral vaccine.
One study demonstrated that co-administration of YF vaccine and measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine decreased the seroconversion rates to all antigens, except measles.
Two more recent studies also showed a less robust antibody concentration for YF and rubella in people who seroconverted after vaccine coadministration.
These studies suggest that whenever possible, it is best to give YF and MMR vaccines one month apart.
However, coadministration of YF and MMR vaccines is acceptable if necessary to ensure that travelers are vaccinated appropriately before travel.
No data are available on the immune response to nasally administered live attenuated influenza vaccine given simultaneously with YF vaccine.
Live bacterial vaccines Data suggest that oral Ty21a typhoid vaccine (Vivotif), a live bacterial vaccine, can be administered simultaneously or at any interval before or after YF vaccine.
No data are available on the immune response to live attenuated oral cholera vaccine (Vaxchora) administered simultaneously with YF vaccine.
Fractional dosing In recent years, several countries have extended vaccine supplies during large YF outbreaks by administering partial vaccine doses, usually 0.1 mL, a practice known as fractional dosing.
Limited data have demonstrated that the immune response to a fractional dose is comparable to a full dose of YF vaccine at one month and one year after administration for healthy persons ≥2 years; however, knowledge gaps regarding fractional dosing remain.
In the United States, FDA has not approved fractional dosing of YF vaccine.
Furthermore, the World Health Organization (WHO) notes that fractional dosing does not meet YF vaccination requirements under the International Health Regulations (IHR).
Proof of vaccination for international travel cannot be issued to a person who has received only a fractional dose; therefore, revaccination would be recommended for those at risk of acquiring YF virus infection or if required for entry under the IHR and a waiver is not being issued.
Booster doses In 2014, the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization concluded that a single primary dose of YF vaccine provides sustained immunity and lifelong protection against YF disease and that revaccination (i.e., booster dose) is not needed.
In 2016, the IHR were officially amended to specify that a completed International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP or "Yellow Card") is valid for the lifetime of the vaccinee.
ACIP also stated that a single dose of YF vaccine provides long-lasting protection and is adequate for most travelers.
ACIP guidelines differ slightly from WHO guidelines by specifying that additional doses of YF vaccine are recommended for the following groups of travelers: women who were pregnant when they received their initial dose of vaccine (administer one additional dose before they are next at risk for YF); people who received a hematopoietic stem cell transplant after receiving a dose of YF vaccine (revaccinate before they are next at risk for YF if sufficiently immunocompetent); and persons living with HIV (PLWH) when they received their last dose of YF vaccine (administer a dose every 10 years if they continue to be at risk for YF).
ACIP stated that a booster dose can be considered for travelers who received their last dose of YF vaccine ≥10 years previously if they will be going to higher-risk settings based on activities, duration of travel, location, and season.
This consideration applies to travelers planning prolonged stays in endemic areas, those traveling to endemic areas (e.g., rural West Africa) during peak transmission season, and travelers visiting areas with ongoing outbreaks.
Healthcare professionals and travelers should nonetheless review the entry requirements for destination countries before traveling.
For more information on country-specific recommendations and country entry requirements, see Yellow Fever Vaccine and Malaria Prevention Information, by Country.
Adverse events Common adverse reactions Reactions to YF vaccine are generally mild; 10–30% of vaccinees report mild systemic symptoms, including headache, low-grade fever, and myalgia, that begin within days after vaccination and last 5–10 days.
Serious adverse reactions Hypersensitivity reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions, characterized by bronchospasm, rash, or urticaria, are uncommon.
Anaphylaxis after YF vaccine is reported to occur at a rate of 1.3 cases per 100,000 doses administered among U.S.
Yellow fever vaccine-associated neurologic disease Yellow fever vaccine-associated neurologic disease (YEL-AND) represents a collection of clinical syndromes, including acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, meningoencephalitis, and, rarely, cranial nerve palsies.
Historically, YEL-AND was diagnosed primarily among infants as encephalitis, although more recent case reports have described various neurological syndromes among people of most age groups.
YEL-AND is rarely fatal.
Almost all cases of YEL-AND reported globally occur in first-time vaccine recipients.
The range of onset of illness for documented cases in the United States is 2–56 days after vaccination.
The incidence of YEL-AND following the administration of YF-VAX in the United States is 0.8 per 100,000 doses administered but is greater (2.2 per 100,000 doses) in people aged ≥60 years.
When enhanced safety monitoring was implemented for Stamaril, YF vaccine imported from France during a stockout of YF-VAX in the United States, the incidence was found to be 1.0 per 100,000 doses administered for all people and 6.2 per 100,000 doses in people aged ≥60 years.
Yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease Yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD) is a severe illness similar to wild-type YF disease, in which vaccine virus proliferates in multiple organs, often leading to multiorgan dysfunction or failure and occasionally death.
YEL-AVD has been reported to occur only after the first dose of YF vaccine; no laboratory-confirmed YEL-AVD has been reported after booster doses.
For YEL-AVD cases associated with YF-VAX administration in the United States, the median time from YF vaccination until symptom onset is 4 days (range 1–18 days).
The case-fatality ratio is approximately 43% and the incidence is 0.3 cases per 100,000 doses of vaccine administered.
The incidence of YEL-AVD is greater for people aged ≥60 years (1.2 per 100,000 doses) and greater still for people aged ≥70 years.
The incidence of YEL-AVD was slightly higher when enhanced safety monitoring was performed for Stamaril in the United States, with 0.5 YEL-AVD cases per 100,000 doses among all recipients and 2.1 per 100,000 doses in people aged ≥60 years.
People without a known contraindication to vaccination can receive YF vaccine even if they have a family member with an altered immune status.
A person who has an absolute YF vaccine contraindication should not be vaccinated because their condition can increase the risk for having a serious adverse event following vaccination.
Encourage those with contraindications to consider alternative travel plans, including postponing travel.
If travel to a YF-endemic area cannot be avoided, provide the traveler with a medical waiver (see below for details), emphasize the importance of strict adherence to protective measures against mosquito bites, and discuss risks associated with being unvaccinated.
The mechanism of increased neurovirulence in infants is unknown but could be due to the immaturity of the blood-brain barrier, an increased or more prolonged viremia, or immune system immaturity.
This contraindication is based on the potential increased risk for encephalitis in this population (see the section on Precautions later in this chapter for guidance regarding PLWH who do not meet the above criteria).
Thymus disorder YF vaccine is contraindicated in people with a thymus disorder associated with abnormal immune cell function (e.g., myasthenia gravis, thymoma).
There is no evidence of immune dysfunction or increased risk for YF vaccine-associated serious adverse events in people who have undergone incidental thymectomy or have had indirect radiation therapy in the distant past; these people can be vaccinated.
Other immunodeficiencies YF vaccine is contraindicated in people who are immunodeficient or immunosuppressed, whether due to an underlying genetic disorder or medical treatment.
Organ transplant recipients and patients with malignant neoplasms who are on immunosuppressive therapies are among those for whom YF vaccine is contraindicated.
Immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies YF vaccine is contraindicated in people whose immunologic response is either suppressed or modulated by current or recent radiation therapy or drugs.
Drugs with known immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory properties include, but are not limited to, alkylating agents, antimetabolites, high-dose systemic corticosteroids, interleukin blocking agents (e.g., anakinra, tocilizumab), monoclonal antibodies targeting immune cells (e.g., alemtuzumab, rituximab), and tumor necrosis THF-alpha inhibitors (e.g., etanercept).
People receiving therapies such as those listed above are presumed to be at increased risk for YF vaccine-associated serious adverse events; administration of live attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in the package insert for most of these drugs.
Even among people who have discontinued immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies, defer administration of live viral vaccines until their immune function has improved.
Hypersensitivity YF vaccine is contraindicated in people with a history of acute hypersensitivity reaction to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any of the vaccine components, including chicken proteins, eggs, egg products, or gelatin.
If vaccination of a person with a questionable history of hypersensitivity to a vaccine component is considered essential, skin testing and, if indicated, desensitization should be performed by an experienced healthcare professional according to instructions provided in the manufacturer's vaccine prescribing information .
Precautions A person with a precaution (relative contraindication) to YF vaccine has a condition that might increase their risk for having a serious adverse event following vaccination or that could interfere with the ability of the vaccine to produce immunity.
YF vaccination precautions include age 6–8 months, age ≥60 years, asymptomatic HIV infection with moderate immunosuppression, pregnancy, and breastfeeding.
Discussing the benefits and risks of YF vaccination with all patients—but particularly those with underlying precautions—is an essential part of the pre-travel consultation.
If travel to a YF risk area is unavoidable for a person with a vaccine precaution, the discussion about vaccination should balance the risk for YF virus exposure against the risk of vaccination (i.e., adverse event or inability to elicit an immune response).
Solicit information from the traveler about their risk tolerance level and include this in the shared decision-making about whether to administer YF vaccine.
If the decision is made to not vaccinate the traveler, provide a medical waiver, emphasize the critical importance of adhering to insect bite precautions, and discuss risks associated with being unvaccinated.
When no risk of YF exists in the itinerary but country entry requirements are in effect in the traveler's destination(s), the vaccine risk outweighs the disease; avoiding vaccination and issuing a medical waiver to fulfill health regulations is reasonable, but this decision should be made in deliberation with the patient.
Precautions based on increased risk of serious adverse event Age 6–8 months Two cases of YEL-AND have been reported in infants aged 6–8 months.
By 9 months of age, risk for YEL-AND is believed to be substantially lower.
ACIP recommends that, whenever possible, travel to YF-endemic countries for children aged 6–8 months should be postponed or avoided.
Age ≥60 years The rate of reported serious adverse events after YF vaccination in people aged ≥60 years is 7.7 per 100,000 doses distributed, compared with 3.8 per 100,000 for all YF vaccine recipients.
The risks for YEL-AND and YEL-AVD are increased in this age group.
Because YEL-AVD has been reported exclusively, and YEL-AND almost exclusively, in primary vaccine recipients, carefully consider the risks and benefits of vaccinating older travelers against YF vaccine for the first time.
Breastfeeding At least 3 YEL-AND cases have been reported in exclusively breastfed infants whose mothers were vaccinated with YF vaccine.
Until specific research data are available, avoid vaccinating breastfeeding women against YF.
Vaccination is recommended when a woman who is nursing cannot avoid or postpone travel to YF-endemic areas.
Although limited data are available to support the practice, some experts recommend that breastfeeding women should pump and discard their breast milk for at least 2 weeks after YF vaccination before resuming breastfeeding.
Precaution based on increased risk of serious adverse event and inability to produce immunity Pregnancy Safety of YF vaccination during pregnancy has not been studied in any large prospective trials.
In two observational studies of women vaccinated against YF during pregnancy, a slightly increased risk for minor congenital abnormalities (mainly pigmented nevi) was detected in one study, and a higher rate of spontaneous abortions was reported in the other.
Neither finding was substantiated by subsequent studies.
If possible, pregnant women should avoid travel to YF risk areas.
If travel is unavoidable and the risk for YF virus exposure is felt to outweigh the vaccination risk, recommending vaccination is appropriate.
By contrast, if the vaccine risk is believed to outweigh the risk for YF virus exposure, offer a medical waiver to the traveler to fulfill health regulations.
The proportion of women vaccinated during pregnancy who develop a YF virus-specific IgG antibody response is variable depending on the study (39% or 98%) and might be correlated with the trimester when the vaccine was administered.
Because pregnancy can reduce immunologic responsiveness, consider serologic testing to document a protective immune response to the vaccine.
In addition, women who received their vaccine during pregnancy are recommended to receive an additional dose before they are at risk and no longer pregnant.
Although no specific data are available, ACIP recommends that a woman wait 4 weeks after receiving the YF vaccine before conceiving.
HIV infection has, however, been associated with a reduced immunologic response to YF vaccine, and this diminished immune response has been correlated with HIV RNA levels and CD4 T cell counts.
Because YF vaccination might be less effective in eliciting an immune response in asymptomatic PLWH, consider serologic testing to document a protective immune response to the vaccine.
In addition, ACIP currently recommends that PLWH receive booster doses of YF vaccine every 10 years if they continue to be at risk of YF.
Limited data suggest that autoimmune disease, either by itself or in conjunction with other risk factors, including immunosuppressive medication, could increase the risk for YEL-AVD and result in lower rates of seroconversion after vaccination.
Use caution if considering vaccination of such patients and provide guidance on mosquito bite avoidance.
Factors to consider when assessing a patient's general level of immune competence include clinical stability, comorbidities, complications, disease severity and duration, and current medications.
International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis The IHR permit countries to require proof of YF vaccination documented on an ICVP as a condition of entry for travelers arriving from certain countries, even if only in transit, to prevent YF virus importation and transmission in the destination country (Figure 4.21.1).
Some countries require evidence of vaccination from all entering travelers, including those arriving directly from the United States (Table 4.21.4).
Travelers without proof of vaccination or a medical waiver arriving to destinations that require this documentation for entry could be denied entry, face mandatory quarantine (up to 6 days), or be required to receive a vaccine dose on site.
Table 4.21.4: Countries that require proof of yellow fever (YF) vaccination from all arriving travelers1 Africa Angola Côte d’Ivoire Niger Benin Democratic Republic of the Congo Sierra Leone Burkina Faso Gabon South Sudan Burundi Ghana Togo Cameroon Guinea Uganda Central African Republic Guinea-Bissau Congo, Republic of the Mali The Americas Bolivia French Guiana Notes 1Last reviewed September 2024.
See WHO International Travel and Health, Annex 1, last published January 2023 .
Country entry requirements for YF vaccination are subject to change at any time; check with the destination country's embassy or consulate before departure.
ICVP validation Vaccinees should receive a completed ICVP, signed by the vaccine provider and validated with the stamp of the center where the vaccine was given.
A properly completed ICVP is valid beginning 10 days after the date of primary vaccination.
As of July 2016, the YF vaccine booster requirement was eliminated in the IHR, and a completed ICVP is considered valid for the lifetime of the vaccinee regardless of whether the traveler was vaccinated before or after 2016.
Designated yellow fever vaccination centers and healthcare professionals The ICVP must bear the original signature of a YF vaccine provider, who can be a physician or other authorized licensed healthcare professional who supervises the administration of the vaccine.
A signature stamp is not acceptable.
YF vaccination must be given at a designated center that possesses an official "uniform stamp," which must be used to validate the ICVP.
In the United States, state and territorial health departments are responsible for designating nonfederal YF vaccination centers and issuing uniform stamps to YF vaccine providers.
Information about the location and hours of YF vaccination centers is available from the CDC Travelers' Health website.
Federal facilities do not fall under the jurisdiction of the state and territorial health departments, but they do need an official "uniform stamp"; the facilities should contact their agency leadership for stamp access.
Reissuing an ICVP Healthcare professionals are encouraged to reissue a replacement ICVP to the traveler if full details of the previous vaccination are confirmed.
If the original stamp owner is no longer available to replace the card, it is acceptable for a new healthcare professional to do so as long as proof of initial vaccination exists.
If the traveler does not have any information on the previous vaccination, revaccination is required.
Reissuing guidance can be found on CDC's Travelers' Health website.
Note the reissued ICVP should include the original date of vaccination and is valid for "life of the person vaccinated." Medical waivers (exemptions) Reasons other than medical contraindications or precautions are not acceptable for exemption from vaccination.
A YF vaccine provider issuing a medical waiver for YF vaccine should complete and sign the Medical Contraindications to Vaccination section of the ICVP (Figure 4.21.2).
The YF vaccine provider should also provide the traveler with a signed and dated waiver letter on letterhead stationery, clearly stating that there is a contraindication(s) to vaccination and bearing the imprint of the uniform stamp used by the YF vaccination center to validate the ICVP (see Template Letter 2: Yellow Fever Vaccine Waiver).
Risks associated with not being vaccinated should be discussed and the importance of strict adherence to mosquito bite prevention measures emphasized.
Medical waivers might not be accepted by the destination country.
To improve the likelihood that a border official will grant a waiver holder entry to their intended destination, recommend that travelers contact the local embassy or consulate of the country or countries well in advance of travel to obtain specific and authoritative advice regarding waiver documentation requirements.
The specific U.S.
embassy for the country may also be able to provide important information.
All information provided should be kept with the completed Medical Contraindications to Vaccination and waiver letter.
Figure 4.21.1 View LargerDownload International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP): instructions for completion.
Show Text Description Notes Clinics offering yellow fever vaccine can purchase ICVP (Form CDC 731; formerly PHS 731), from the U.S.
Government Publishing Office ( ) website or by phone (866-512-1800).
Instructions for ICVP completion: (1) Print the traveler’s name exactly as it appears in their passport.
(2, 5, 7) Enter all dates in the format shown: day (in numerals), month (spelled in letters), year.
In the example above, the patient’s date of birth is correctly entered as 22 March 1960.
(3) Space reserved for the patient’s signature.
(4) For yellow fever (YF) vaccination, print “Yellow Fever” in both spaces.
If the ICVP is used to document proof of another required vaccination or prophylaxis ( following an amendment to the International Health Regulations or by recommendation of the World Health Organization), write the disease or condition name in this space.
Other vaccinations may be listed on the other side of the ICVP booklet.
(5) Enter the date of vaccine administration, as shown.
(6) The healthcare professional should enter their handwritten signature, as shown.
A signature stamp is not acceptable.
For YF vaccine, the healthcare professional signing the ICVP may be the stamp owner or another healthcare professional authorized by the stamp holder to administer or supervise the administration of the vaccine.
(7) The ICVP is valid beginning 10 days after the date of primary YF vaccination.
Add that date to this box along with the suggested wording “life of person vaccinated,” as shown.
(8) Imprint the Uniform Stamp of the vaccinating center in this box.
Figure 4.21.2 View LargerDownload Figure 4.21.2: International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP) – medical contraindication to vaccination Show Text Description Vaccine requirements versus recommendations Country entry requirements for proof of YF vaccination under the IHR differ from CDC's recommendations.
Countries are permitted to establish YF vaccine entry requirements to prevent the YF virus importation and transmission within their borders.
Unless issued a medical waiver by a YF vaccine provider, travelers must comply with these requirements to enter the country.
Certain countries require vaccination from travelers arriving from all countries (Table 4.21.4); others require vaccination only for travelers above a certain age coming from countries with risk of YF virus transmission.
WHO defines areas with risk of YF virus transmission as places where YF virus activity has been reported currently or in the past, and where vectors and animal reservoirs exist.
Countries that contain areas with only low potential for YF virus exposure are not included on the official WHO list of countries with risk of YF virus transmission, and proof of vaccination is not required unless a country requires proof of vaccination from all travelers (Table 4.21.2; Table 4.21.1; Table 4.21.4).
However, some countries require proof of vaccination if there is travel through an airport or port city in a country with risk of YF virus transmission; CDC recommends that travelers and their healthcare professionals check the full itinerary, including airport transfers, and discuss the possibility of entry requirements because of a long layover and the need to pass through immigration checkpoint for accommodations; additionally, those traveling on cruise ships with multiple port city stops should be aware of the sequence of port visits and the cruise line policies regarding ICVPs.
Because country entry requirements are subject to change at any time, CDC encourages travelers and their healthcare professionals to check the CDC Travelers' Health website destination pages for current vaccine information and relevant Travel Health Notices.
In addition, it can be useful to check with the relevant embassy or consulate before departure.
To make its recommendations for preventing travel-associated YF virus infections, CDC uses a destination-specific risk classification for YF virus transmission: endemic, transitional, low potential for exposure, and no risk.
CDC recommends YF vaccination for travel to endemic or transitional areas and vaccination may be considered but is generally not recommended for areas where potential for YF virus exposure is low (Map 4.21.1; Map 4.21.2).
CDC recommendations are subject to revision at any time because of changes in YF virus circulation; before departure, check the CDC Travelers' Health website destination pages for current vaccine information and relevant Travel Health Notices.
Map 4.21.1 View LargerDownload Map 4.21.1: Yellow fever vaccine recommendations for Africa SOURCE: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Show Text Description Notes 1Current as of December 2024.
This map is an updated version of the 2010 map created by the Informal WHO Working Group on the Geographic Risk of Yellow Fever.
2Yellow fever (YF) vaccination is generally not recommended for travel to areas where the potential for YF virus exposure is low.
Vaccination might be considered, however, for a small subset of travelers going to these areas who are at increased risk for exposure to YF virus due to prolonged travel, heavy exposure to mosquitoes, or inability to avoid mosquito bites.
Factors to consider when deciding whether to vaccinate a traveler include destination-specific and travel-associated risks for YF virus infection; individual, underlying risk factors for having a serious YF vaccine-associated adverse event; and country entry requirements.
Map 4.21.2 View LargerDownload Map 4.21.2: Yellow fever vaccine recommendations for the Americas SOURCE: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Show Text Description Notes 1Current as of December 2024.
This map is an updated version of the 2010 map created by the Informal WHO Working Group on the Geographic Risk of Yellow Fever.
2Yellow fever (YF) vaccination is generally not recommended for travel to areas where the potential for YF virus exposure is low.
Vaccination might be considered, however, for a small subset of travelers going to these areas who are at increased risk for exposure to YF virus due to prolonged travel, heavy exposure to mosquitoes, or inability to avoid mosquito bites.
Factors to consider when deciding whether to vaccinate a traveler include destination-specific and travel-associated risks for YF virus infection; individual, underlying risk factors for having a serious YF vaccine-associated adverse event; and country entry requirements.
Acknowledgements The following author contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Mark D.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis Vaccine requirements versus recommendations Acknowledgements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Rabies Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Ryan M.
Wallace and David R.
Shlim Top takeaway: Pre-exposure and post-exposure strategies exist to minimize rabies risk in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Rabies virus Endemicity Worldwide, except Antarctica Some countries categorized as rabies virus-free are endemic for related viruses (e.g., Australian bat lyssavirus) Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Primarily travelers with bat, dog, or cat contact (although a wide range of mammals can transmit virus) Prevention methods Avoid animal bites and direct contact with unfamiliar animals If bitten or scratched, thoroughly wash the wound, seek immediate medical attention, and obtain appropriate post-exposure prophylaxis Rabies is a vaccine-preventable disease Diagnostic support State health department; rabies@cdc.gov Infectious agent Rabies is a fatal, acute, progressive encephalomyelitis caused by neurotropic viruses in the family Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus.
Numerous, diverse lyssaviruses are found in various mammalian species throughout the world, all of which can cause fatal human rabies.
Rabies virus is by far the most common Lyssavirus infection in humans.
Tens of millions of potential human exposures and tens of thousands of deaths from rabies occur each year.
Transmission The normal and most successful mode of rabies virus transmission is via the bite of a rabid animal.
Rabies virus is neurotropic; it gains access to the nervous system through exposed peripheral nerve synapses after inoculation, most often through bite wounds.
The virus travels from its point of entry within peripheral nerves to the central nervous system (CNS), where viral replication increases exponentially.
Rabies virus then migrates from the CNS back to the peripheral nervous system (PNS) into, among other innervated tissues, the salivary glands.
Rabies virus secreted in saliva allows the transmission cycle to repeat.
Viral shedding typically occurs just days prior to onset of clinical signs in infected animals and humans; early clinical signs in the animal can be non-specific.
In the context of foreign travel, any bite or scratch exposure from a mammal that is not available for observation and is consistent with the World Health Organization's (WHO's) case definition for a suspected rabid animal should lead to rabies post-exposure prophylaxis (Box 4.15.1).
International health agencies have only established observation periods for dogs, cats, and ferrets.
In those animals, an animal that stays healthy for 10 days after the exposure event is considered not to have been infectious for rabies at the time of the exposure.
Observation is rarely an option in the context of foreign travel, and it is common that post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is administered out of an abundance of caution.
Exposure of highly innervated tissues (e.g., those in the face and hands) can increase the risk for successful infection, and exposures occurring closer to the CNS (e.g., head, neck) can potentially shorten the incubation period.
In addition to saliva, rabies virus can be found in CNS and PNS tissue, and in tears.
Infection from non-bite exposures (e.g., organ and innervated tissue transplantation from infected humans) has occurred, but human-to-human transmission generally does not occur.
All mammals are believed to be susceptible to rabies virus infection.
Bats are capable of transmitting rabies in any destination.
Dogs are the main reservoir in many low- and middle-income countries.
Controversy exists as to the risk of bites from rodents.
Rabies has been documented in rats in Thailand that have bitten humans.
In general, rodents are thought to not transmit rabies because of the feeling that if a rodent were bitten by a large carnivore, it would likely die from its wound.
Bites from rodents, while traveling, would require individual assessment as to whether rabies PEP is required.
Box 4.15.1 World Health Organization, animal rabies case definition Clinical Case Definition An animal that presents with any of the following signs: Hypersalivation Paralysis Lethargy Unprovoked abnormal aggression (e.g., biting two or more people, animals, or inanimate objects) Abnormal vocalization Diurnal activity of nocturnal species Animal Rabies: Suspected A case compatible with a clinical case definition of animal rabies.
Animal Rabies: Probable A suspected case with a reliable history of contact with a suspected, probably, or confirmed rabid animal, or an animal with suspected rabies that has been killed, has died, or has disappeared within 4–5 days of illness being observed.
Animal Rabies: Confirmed A suspected or probable case that is confirmed in a laboratory.
Not a Case A suspected or probable case that is ruled out by laboratory tests or epidemiological investigation (i.e., appropriate quarantine period of eligible animals).
Notes Adapted from: World Health Organization.
WHO Expert Consultation on Rabies: Third Report.

Epidemiology Lyssaviruses, the causative agents for rabies, have been found on all continents except Antarctica.
Rabies virus is classified into two major genetic lineages: canine and New World bat.
These two lineages can be further classified into rabies virus variants based on genetic differentiations, geographic extent, and the reservoir species in which they circulate.
Regionally, different viral variants are adapted to various mammalian hosts and perpetuate in dogs and wildlife (e.g., bats, foxes, jackals, mongooses, raccoons, skunks).
Dog-maintained rabies virus variants remain enzootic in many areas of the world, including Africa, parts of Central and South America, and Asia.
In addition to rabies virus, the Lyssavirus genus includes 16 other viruses that cause rabies disease.
Non-rabies lyssaviruses are found in Africa, Asia, Australia, and Europe; while several non-rabies lyssaviruses have caused human deaths, these viruses contribute relatively little to the global rabies burden compared to rabies virus.
Timely and specific information about the global occurrence of rabies is often difficult to find.
Surveillance levels vary, and reporting status can change suddenly because of disease reintroduction, emergence, or disruptions in surveillance operations.
The rate of rabies exposures in travelers is an estimate, at best, and might range from 16 to 200 exposures per 100,000 travelers.
Reported deaths from rabies in travelers average about two travelers per year worldwide.
Clinical presentation After viral invasion of the PNS and then CNS, clinical illness in humans culminates in an acute, fatal encephalitis.
After infection, the asymptomatic incubation period is variable, but signs and symptoms most commonly develop within several weeks to months after exposure.
Pain and paresthesia at the site of exposure are often the first symptoms of disease.
The disease then progresses rapidly from a prodromal phase (fever and non-specific symptoms) to a neurologic phase characterized by anxiety, paralysis, paresis, and other signs of encephalitis.
Swallowing muscle spasm can be stimulated by the sight, sound, or perception of water (hydrophobia).
Early clinical signs often present as autonomic dysfunction, resulting from infection of the autonomic nervous system.
At least 1 traveler underwent cardiac catheterization because a cardiac etiology rather than rabies was initially suspected.
Delirium and convulsions can develop, followed soon thereafter by coma and death.
Most rabies cases detected by healthcare systems are in people with classic encephalitic disease in which fever, hydrophobia, hyperactivity, or spasms eventually progress to paralysis and coma; this progression corresponds to "furious" rabies in animals.
Paralytic rabies is less commonly diagnosed, and patients typically present with paralysis at the site of exposure, which then progresses as an ascending paralysis, ultimately leading to coma; this is the equivalent of paralytic or "dumb" rabies in animals.
Once clinical signs appear, patients die quickly in the absence of intensive supportive care.
Diagnosis Diagnosis can be made in a patient with a compatible exposure history and a classic clinical presentation (Box 4.15.2).
Clinical suspicion and prioritization of differential diagnoses can be complicated by variations in clinical presentation and a lack of exposure history.
Because several weeks to months could have elapsed since exposure, and an accurate exposure history can be difficult to elicit in a patient exhibiting signs of rabies, patients might not reveal potential rabies virus exposures, and healthcare professionals might not initially consider the possibility.
As a result, rabies diagnosis in the United States is almost always missed at the first clinical encounter.
Definitive antemortem diagnosis requires use of specialized diagnostic methods on multiple specimens, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), saliva, serum, and skin biopsies taken from the nape of the neck.
Because the probability of virus and antibody detection varies over the course of illness, sequential sample collection is indicated if initial testing is negative but clinical suspicion remains high.
Finding rabies virus antigen or nucleic acid in any antemortem sample confirms the diagnosis.
A thorough review of all medical care provided to patients prior to sample collection is necessary to correctly interpret some diagnostic test results.
Recent reports, for example, have described how human-derived products (e.g., IVIG) administered to patients can be a passive source of high concentrations of donor-derived rabies lyssavirus-antibodies (RLAs); in the absence of an accurate history of recent IVIG administration, finding RLAs in serum can incorrectly suggest a diagnosis of rabies.
In unvaccinated encephalitic patients, however, the presence of rabies virus antibodies (particularly in CSF samples) confirms the diagnosis (see more information on diagnostic testing).
Rabies is a nationally notifiable disease.
CDC is designated as the national rabies reference laboratory for the United States, along with the WHO Collaborating Center for Rabies and the World Organisation for Animal Health Rabies Reference Laboratory.
In this capacity, CDC performs public health testing for domestic and international health agencies, for both human and animal rabies diagnoses.
Healthcare professionals submitting samples to CDC for rabies testing must first consult with program staff, obtain approval, and complete the requisite paperwork (see step-by-step instructions).
Box 4.15.2 World Health Organization, human rabies case definitions Clinical Case Definition A person presenting with an acute neurologic syndrome (encephalitis) dominated by forms of hyperactivity (furious rabies) or paralytic syndromes (paralytic rabies) progressing toward coma and death, usually by cardiac or respiratory failure, typically within 7–10 days after the first symptom if no intensive care is instituted.
Symptoms include any of the following: aerophobia, dysphagia, hydrophobia, nausea or vomiting, paresthesia, localized pain, or localized weakness.
Human Rabies: Suspected A case compatible with the clinical case definition.
Human Rabies: Probable A suspected case plus a reliable history of contact with a suspected, probable, or confirmed rabid animal.
Human Rabies: Confirmed A suspected or probable case confirmed through appropriate laboratory testing.
Notes Adapted from: World Health Organization.
WHO Expert Consultation on Rabies: Third Report.

Treatment No evidence-based approach to treating rabies patients is available.
Most cases are managed with symptomatic and palliative supportive care.
Survival after the clinical phase of rabies virus infection is incredibly rare, but case reports continue to provide insight into potential therapeutic options, and experimental treatment regimens continue to be investigated.
To date, early and robust production of rabies virus-neutralizing antibodies has been the primary factor associated with rare reports of survival.
Rabies is still considered universally fatal for practical purposes; avoiding rabies virus exposures remains the most important prevention measure.
For those who are (or who suspect they might have been) exposed to a rabid animal, urgently taking the other prevention measures described below is the only way to optimize survival.
Prevention Travelers can best prevent rabies by learning about infection risks and the need to avoid bites and scratches from mammals, especially high-risk rabies reservoir species; consulting with travel health professionals to determine whether pre-exposure vaccination is recommended; knowing how to prevent rabies after a bite; and knowing how to obtain PEP, which might involve urgent importation of rabies biologics or travel to somewhere PEP is available.
If infected, not seeking PEP or receiving inadequate care likely will result in death from rabies.
Avoid animal exposures Avoiding bites is truly the best prevention measure for rabies.
Traumatic bites that deeply puncture skin are the greatest risk for rabies transmission; however, even low-trauma events such as "nips" from young animals or bites from bats can lead to rabies deaths.
While scratches are a lower risk for transmission compared to bites, scratches that break skin can be contaminated by rabies-laden saliva and are a potential route for rabies transmission.
Although rabies can be completely prevented by appropriate post-exposure care, obtaining that care and worrying about its effectiveness can be nerve-wracking for patients.
Warn travelers going to rabies-enzootic countries about the risks for rabies exposure.
Counsel them to stay away from unfamiliar mammals, including puppies and kittens, and to avoid contact with bats and other wildlife.
Children are at greater risk for rabies exposure and subsequent illness because of their inquisitive nature and inability to read behavioral cues from dogs and other animals.
The smaller a child's stature, the more likely they are to experience severe bites to high-risk areas (e.g., the head and face).
Also contributing to the higher risk for children is their attraction to animals and the possibility that they might not report an exposure.
Bats and other wildlife Besides rabies virus, other bat-associated pathogens include Histoplasma spp., coronaviruses, and viral hemorrhagic fever viruses (see Zoonotic Exposures: Bites, Scratches, and Other Hazards).
Educate travelers to avoid handling bats or other wildlife and to consider using personal protective equipment before entering caves where bats are found.
Many bats have tiny teeth, and the wounds they inflict might not be readily apparent.
If a bat has had contact with bare skin or has gotten caught up in one's hair, a potential bite should be suspected.
Failure to find the tiny bite wound has led to rabies deaths in a few people.
Warn travelers that any contact with a bat on bare skin or in the hair should be grounds for seeking PEP.
Dogs In many low- and middle-income countries, dogs roam freely; encourage travelers to remain vigilant of unfamiliar dogs and to avoid physical contact, when possible.
Inadvertently approaching puppies when the mother is near, stepping on sleeping dogs, walking into dogs, or getting too close to dogs fighting or protecting food sources can provoke biting behavior.
Travelers that encounter an unfamiliar dog that is showing aggression should avoid direct eye contact, attempt to remain still, and slowly back away; shouting, erratic movements, or reciprocal aggression is likely to provoke a bite from the dog.
Travelers bitten by a dog once are almost never bitten a second time, validating the observation that with proper awareness, bites can be avoided.
Scanning for dogs on the street can become second nature for experienced travelers and expatriates.
Knowledgeable travelers (even those never bitten) can travel for decades without ever having a dog bite.
Cats While cats are not a reservoir for rabies virus, rabid cats are often reported from rabies-enzootic countries.
Due to ecological and behavioral traits, cats have an increased risk of interacting with rabid wildlife (particularly bats) and dogs.
Like dogs, cats commonly roam freely and can become aggressive if approached.
An increasing, yet small, number of human rabies deaths due to cat bites and scratches have been reported in recent years.
Bites and scratches from unfamiliar cats should be reported to a medical professional for a rabies assessment.
Non-human primates Although non-human primates (NHPs) are rarely rabid, they are a common source of bites, mainly in Asia, and often are associated with tourist attractions.
In most instances, wild NHPs cannot be followed up for rabies assessments, and PEP is recommended for bite victims.
Awareness of this risk and simple prevention are particularly effective: advise travelers not to approach or otherwise interact with NHPs or carry food while NHPs are near, especially those that have become habituated to tourists.
B virus infection is another risk from NHP bites and is discussed in the Zoonotic Exposures: Bites, Scratches, and Other Hazards chapter.
Pre-exposure prophylaxis Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) does not eliminate the need for additional medical attention after a rabies exposure, but it simplifies PEP (see Post-Exposure Prophylaxis later in this chapter).
PrEP might also provide some protection when an exposure to rabies virus goes unrecognized or PEP is otherwise delayed.
Travelers who complete a recognized PrEP immunization series (see Revised Vaccine Schedule later in this chapter) or who receive full PEP are considered previously vaccinated and do not require routine boosters.
Routine testing for rabies virus-neutralizing antibody is not recommended for international travelers who do not otherwise fall into the frequent or continuous risk categories and have no immunodeficiencies (Table 4.15.1).
1Source: Rao, A.
K., Briggs, D., Moore, S.
M., Whitehill, F., Campos-Outcalt, D., Morgan, R.
L., Wallace, R.
M., Romero, J.
R., Bahta, L., Frey, S.
E., & Blanton, J.
Use of a modified preexposure prophylaxis vaccination schedule to prevent human rabies: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices—United States, 2022.
MMWR: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 71, 619–627.
2Exposure type and nature of work or travel are the most important variables to consider when determining a person's risk category.
Perform risk categorization on a case-by-case basis; examples provided are intended as a guide only.
3Consult local or state health departments about local disease biogeography.
4Primary immunogenicity peaks 2–4 weeks after completing the recommended primary 2-dose PrEP vaccine series.
People who are immunocompetent are expected to mount an appropriate response, and checking titers is not routinely recommended.
Before people with altered immunity participate in high-risk activities, confirm a rabies antibody titer ≥0.5 IU/mL ≥1 week after booster vaccination (but ideally, 2–4 weeks after completing the recommended series).
Individual facilities set their own rules regarding laboratory-confirmation of acceptable antibody titers for personnel.
6Unrecognized exposures: exposures that a person might not know occurred (e.g., a small scratch sustained during an inconspicuous breach in personal protective equipment might go unnoticed by a laboratorian testing neural tissue from rabid animals or by a field biologist conducting ecologic studies on bats).
7Recognized exposures: bites, scratches, splashes, etc., that are unusual for a person (e.g., bat contact) or painful (e.g., raccoon bite or scratch).
For people who are immunocompetent, checking antibody titers to verify booster response is not recommended.
For people with altered immunity, verify antibody titers ≥1 week (ideally, 2–4 weeks) after each booster dose of vaccine administered.
9Includes people who: handle bats; have regular contact with bats; enter high-density bat environments (e.g., biologists who enter bat roosts or collect suspected rabies samples); perform animal necropsies (e.g., veterinary pathologists who frequently perform necropsies on mammals suspected to have had rabies).
People for whom the frequency of handling rabies virus–infected tissues is low, or the procedures performed do not involve contact with neural tissue or opening of a suspected rabid animal's calvarium, could consider following the recommended immunization schedule for risk category 2 rather than risk category 1.
11Rabies virus is unlikely to persist outside a dead animal's body for an extended time due to virus inactivation by desiccation, ultraviolet irradiation, and other factors.
Risk of transmission to people who handle animal products (e.g., hunters, taxidermists) is unknown but presumed to be low (risk category 5); direct skin contact with saliva and neural tissue of mammals should be avoided regardless of profession.
12Includes veterinarians, technicians, animal control officers, and their students/trainees; people who handle wildlife reservoir species (e.g., wildlife biologists, rehabilitators, trappers); spelunkers.
13PrEP considerations for travelers include: (1) Will the person be participating in occupational or recreational activities that increase their risk for exposure to potentially rabid animals (particularly dogs)?
and (2) Will the person have difficulty getting prompt access to safe post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP)?
For example, will they be in rural areas or visiting destinations where PEP is not readily available (
14Unless the recipient has altered immunity, checking titers after recommended booster doses is not indicated.
Recommended traveler categories Recommendations for pre-exposure rabies vaccination can be made for certain international traveler categories based on multiple factors: The occurrence of animal rabies in the destination country The availability of anti-rabies biologics The traveler's intended activities, especially in remote areas The traveler's duration of stay A decision to receive pre-exposure rabies immunization might also be based on the likelihood of repeat travel to at-risk destinations or long-term travel to a high-risk destination.
Consider PrEP for animal handlers, field biologists, cavers, missionaries, veterinarians, and some laboratory workers.
Table 4.15.1 provides criteria for PrEP.
Regardless of whether PrEP is administered, encourage travelers to purchase medical evacuation insurance if they are going to areas where the risk for rabies is high.
Revised vaccine schedule In the United States, PrEP previously consisted of a series of three intramuscular (deltoid) injections of human diploid cell rabies vaccine (HDCV) or purified chick embryo cell (PCEC) vaccine given on days 0, 7, and 21 or 28.
Based on recent changes in WHO recommendations and the availability of empirical studies, the U.S.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) reviewed its own recommendations for PrEP and approved a 2-dose pre-exposure regimen, given on days 0 and 7 (Table 4.15.2).
The advantages of the revised ACIP schedule are that it is less expensive and easier to complete prior to travel.
Data strongly support a 3-year duration of immunity for this 2-dose series; however, longer durations of immunity are still being evaluated.
Because of this uncertainty, travelers with a sustained risk for rabies exposure should either have a titer drawn 1–3 years after the 2-dose primary series or receive a third dose of vaccine no sooner than day 21 and no later than year 3 after the 2-dose primary series.
Travelers unlikely to visit an at-risk destination after 3 years require no further titers or boosters unless they have a subsequent exposure or resume travel to at-risk destinations.
Under current guidelines, which may change as more long-term data become available, a person with a rabies exposure more than 3 years after their initial 2 immunizations, without an intervening titer or booster, would need to undergo full PEP with RIG.
A traveler who has had 3 pre-exposure immunizations, or an adequate titer 1–3 years after their initial series, is considered to be pre-immunized for life, assuming they remain immunologically healthy.
Persons considered pre-exposure vaccinated are still recommended to receive 2 doses of rabies vaccine on days 0 and 3 to ensure a robust immune response in the face of an exposure.
Table 4.15.2: Pre-exposure immunization for rabies1 Vaccine Dose (mL) Number of Doses Schedule (Days)2 Route3 HDCV, Imovax (Sanofi) 1.0 2 0 and 7 IM PCEC, RabAvert (Bavarian Nordic) 1.0 2 0 and 7 IM Notes Abbreviations: HDCV, human diploid cell rabies vaccine; PCEC, purified chick embryo cell vaccine; IM, intramuscular.
1People who are immunocompromised by disease or medications should postpone pre-exposure vaccinations and consider avoiding activities for which rabies pre-exposure prophylaxis is indicated during the period of expected immune compromise.
If this is not possible, immunocompromised people at risk for rabies should have their antibody titers checked after vaccination.
2Every attempt should be made to adhere to recommended schedules; for most minor deviations (e.g., delays of a few days for individual doses), vaccination can be resumed as though the traveler were on schedule.
Travelers with a sustained risk for rabies exposures should either have a titer drawn or receive a third dose of vaccine within 3 years of the initial series.
Travelers unlikely to visit an at-risk destination after 3 years require no further titers or boosters unless they have an exposure.
3Vaccines should be delivered intramuscularly into the deltoid area (for children anterolateral aspect of the thigh is acceptable).
Vaccines should never be administered in the gluteal area.
Vaccine safety and adverse reactions Advise travelers that they might experience local reactions after vaccination (e.g., erythema, itching at the injection site, pain, swelling) or mild systemic reactions (e.g., abdominal pain, dizziness, headache, muscle aches, nausea).
Approximately 6% of people receiving booster vaccinations with HDCV experience systemic hypersensitivity reactions characterized by malaise, pruritis, or urticaria.
The likelihood of these reactions is less with PCEC vaccine.
Wound management Travelers should clean all animal bites and scratches with copious amounts of soap and water, povidone iodine, or other products with virucidal activity.
Inform travelers that cleaning bite wounds immediately (or as soon as possible) substantially reduces the risk for rabies virus infection, especially when followed by timely administration of PEP.
For unvaccinated patients, delay suturing any wounds for a few days.
If suturing is necessary to control bleeding or for functional or cosmetic reasons, inject RIG into all exposed tissues before closing the wound.
Use of local anesthetics is not contraindicated in wound management.
Post-exposure prophylaxis Travelers who received pre-exposure prophylaxis For previously vaccinated people, PEP consists of two doses of modern cell culture vaccine given 3 days apart (days 0 and 3), ideally initiated shortly after the exposure.
The booster doses do not have to be the same brand as the one used for the original pre-exposure immunization series.
RIG should not be administered to people who were previously vaccinated, because it can lead to a diminished immune response to vaccine and provides no benefit to the recipient.
After cleaning the wound, inject as much of the dose-appropriate volume of RIG (Table 4.15.3) as is anatomically feasible at wound sites.
The intent is to put RIG anywhere saliva might have contaminated the wounded tissue.
Avoid administering RIG into the same anatomical site as the vaccine because the two products neutralize each other.
Likewise, RIG should never be administered in the same syringe as the first vaccine dose.
Once initiated, rabies PEP should not be interrupted or discontinued because of local or mild systemic reactions to the vaccine.
If an adverse event occurs with one of the vaccine types, consider switching to the alternative cell culture vaccine for the remainder of the series.
Antihistamines or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications taken before vaccination can help reduce mild adverse reactions in people with a history of such reactions.
Table 4.15.3: Post-exposure prophylaxis for rabies1 Immunization Status Product Dose Number of Doses Schedule (Days)2 Route3 Not previously vaccinated4 RIG 20 IU/kg body weight 1 0 Infiltrate bite site (if possible); give remainder IM at a site separate from where vaccine is administered Vaccine (HDCV or PCEC) 1.0 mL 4 0, 3, 7, 14 (and 28 if immunocompromised)5,6 IM Previously vaccinated7,8 Vaccine (HDCV or PCEC) 1.0 mL 2 0, 3 IM Notes Abbreviations: HDCV, human diploid cell vaccine; IM, intramuscular; PCEC, purified chick embryo cell; RIG, rabies immune globulin.
1Begin all post-exposure prophylaxis with immediate, thorough cleansing of all wounds with soap and water, povidone iodine, or other substances with virucidal activity.
2Every attempt should be made to adhere to recommended schedules; for most minor deviations (e.g., delays of a few days for individual doses), vaccination can be resumed as though the traveler were on schedule.
When substantial deviations occur, assess immune status by serologic testing 7–14 days after the final dose is administered.
3Vaccines should be delivered intramuscularly into the deltoid area (for children anterolateral aspect of the thigh is acceptable).
Vaccines should never be administered in the gluteal area.
4For people not previously vaccinated against rabies, PEP consists of both RIG and a series of rabies vaccine injections.
5Immunocompromised patients should receive 5 vaccine doses.
The first 4 vaccine doses are given on the same schedule as for an immunocompetent patient, and the fifth dose is given on day 28; patient follow-up should include monitoring antibody response.
For more information, see Rupprecht, C.
E., Briggs, D., Brown, C.
M., Franka, R., Katz, S.
L., Kerr, H.
D., Lett, S.
M., Levis, R., Meltzer, M.
I., Shaffner, W., Cieslak, P.
R., & Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2010).
Use of a reduced (4-dose) vaccine schedule for postexposure prophylaxis to prevent human rabies: Recommendations of the advisory committee on immunization practices.
MMWR: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 59(RR-2), 1–9.
6The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends 4 post-exposure vaccine doses, on days 0, 3, 7, and 14, unless the patient is immunocompromised, in which case a fifth dose is given at day 28.
7Defined as pre-exposure immunization with HDCV or PCEC, prior post-exposure prophylaxis with HDCV or PCEC, or prior vaccination with any other type of rabies vaccine and a documented history of positive rabies virus–neutralizing antibody response to that vaccination.
8RIG not recommended.
Rabies immune globulin: availability and timing HRIG is manufactured by plasmapheresis of blood from hyperimmunized volunteers.
The total quantity of commercially produced HRIG falls short of worldwide demand, and it is not available in many low- and middle-income countries.
Equine RIG, purified fractions of equine RIG, and rabies monoclonal antibody products might be available in some countries where HRIG is not.
Such products are preferable to no RIG.
If access to RIG is delayed but modern cell culture vaccine is available, start the vaccine series as soon as possible, and add RIG to the regimen ≤7 days after the first dose of vaccine was administered.
After day 7 (e.g., 3 doses of vaccine), RIG is unlikely to provide benefit because antibodies from the patient's own vaccine-derived immune response should be present.
If a patient experiences deviations in the vaccination schedule, including HRIG deviations, expert consultation should be sought.
Because rabies virus can persist in tissue for a long time before invading a peripheral nerve, a previously unimmunized traveler who sustained a bite suspicious for rabies should receive full PEP, including RIG, even if a considerable length of time has passed since the initial exposure.
If there is a scar or the patient remembers where the bite occurred, an appropriate amount of RIG should be injected in the area.
Rabies immune globulin: dilution If the wound is small and on a distal extremity (e.g., a finger, toe), use clinical judgment to decide how much RIG to inject to avoid complications (e.g., ischemia) due to local distention of the digit or digits.
Administer any remaining dose intramuscularly at a site distant from the site of vaccine administration.
If wounds are extensive, do not exceed the dose-appropriate volume of RIG.
If the indicated volume is inadequate to inject all wounds, dilute the RIG with normal saline to ensure sufficient volume to inject all wounds.
The one exception is the newer more concentrated version of HRIG (HyperRAb 300 i.u./ml), which requires using dextrose 5% in water (D5W) as the diluent.
RIG dilution is particularly important in children whose body weight might be small in relation to the size and number of wounds.
Historically, HRIG has consisted of a product with 150 IU per mL.
In recent years, new products with 300 IU per mL have entered the market.
This requires the healthcare professional to ascertain which product is available in their clinic or hospital to make sure they do not exceed the total calculated dose of HRIG.
Rabies immune globulin: safety and adverse events The incidence of adverse events after the use of modern equine-derived RIG is low (0.8–6.0%), and most reactions are minor.
Because such products are not regulated by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, however, their use cannot be recommended unequivocally.
In addition, unpurified anti-rabies serum of equine origin might still be used in some countries where neither human nor equine RIG is available.
Contraindications and precautions Pregnancy is not a contraindication to receiving PEP.
In infants and children, the dose of HDCV or PCEC for PrEP or PEP is the same as that recommended for adults.
The PEP RIG dose is based on body weight (Table 4.15.3).
Rabies vaccines were once manufactured from viruses grown in animal brains; some of these vaccines are still in use in low- and middle-income countries.
Typically, travelers can identify brain-derived vaccines, also known as nerve tissue vaccines, if they are offered a daily large-volume injection (5 mL) for approximately 14–21 days.
Because of variability in the potency in these preparations, which might limit their effectiveness, and the risk for severe adverse reactions, advise travelers to decline these vaccines and to travel to a location where acceptable vaccines and RIG are available.
Variations in post-exposure prophylaxis Different PEP schedules, alternative routes of administration, or other rabies vaccines besides HDCV and PCEC might be used abroad.
For example, commercially available purified Vero cell rabies vaccine is an acceptable alternative, if available.
Other rabies vaccines or PEP regimens could require additional prophylaxis or confirmation of adequate rabies virus-neutralizing antibody titers.
Encourage travelers to take photos of the rabies PEP products they receive and to be conscious of the vaccine storage conditions and corresponding administration schedule.
This information is necessary for healthcare professionals to determine whether additional vaccines or titers are indicated.
Healthcare professionals can obtain assistance managing complicated PEP scenarios from experienced travel medicine professionals, health departments, or CDC (rabies@cdc.gov).
Healthcare professionals are justifiably concerned about getting everything right when trying to prevent a disease that is virtually 100% fatal, leading to overconcern about small variations in the administration of rabies vaccines.
Modern-day cell culture rabies vaccines are highly immunogenic, however, and post-exposure rabies vaccine schedules have been developed to provide the quickest onset of endogenous antibodies, which is why these vaccines are given on such a short schedule.
Make every effort to adhere to a recognized ACIP or WHO schedule.
Variations of days to weeks are unlikely to diminish the immune response to vaccination but could delay the onset of protection.
Numerous schedules and routes of administration have been recognized by international health authorities and have been shown to be highly effective at preventing rabies.
Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Brett W.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Acknowledgements Rickettsial Diseases SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Sex and Travel Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Melanie M.
Taylor and Ina U.
Park Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should educate international travelers about safe sex practices during travel.
Introduction Travel is often accompanied by the desire for new social interactions and experiences.
Loss of inhibition associated with being away from home can lead some travelers to take sexual and behavioral risks.
These behaviors can involve sex with new, unknown, or multiple partners.
Use of alcohol or drugs (which further decrease inhibition) and geosocial networking applications ("apps," which increase the efficiency of meeting sexual partners) can amplify a traveler's chances of having risky exposures.
Educating travelers regarding risks of condomless sex or unplanned sexual encounters is critical to prevent sexual assault, unintended pregnancy, and exposure to sexually transmitted infections (STIs, including those that are drug-resistant), HIV infection, and emerging infectious diseases, such as monkeypox.
Healthcare professionals have an opportunity to help patients reduce their risk for STIs, HIV infection, and unintended pregnancy through pre-travel risk-reduction counseling and medical interventions.
The pre-travel consultation also gives healthcare professionals a chance to review safety recommendations to prevent sexual assault during travel.
Clinical interventions to reduce sexual risk during travel Medical interventions and behavioral counseling to reduce risk of STIs and unintended pregnancy are essential for travelers planning to engage in sex.
Recommended elements of a pre-travel clinical encounter can include the following (Box 8.8.1): STI and HIV prevention guidance, such as the use of condoms or other barrier methods STI and HIV pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis discussion Options for contraception (including emergency contraception) Vaccination Tailored prevention interventions and counseling should be guided by a thorough sexual and substance use history to understand the traveler's potential risks during travel and at the destination (Box 8.8.2).
For example, travelers planning to engage in sexual activity can be screened or referred for pre-travel STI or HIV testing and treatment.
Available vaccines for prevention of viral infections transmitted through sexual contact (e.g., hepatitis A vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine, human papillomavirus vaccine, monkeypox vaccine) should be considered based on patient demographics (e.g., age, sex), sexual behavioral risk, and prior vaccination history (more information available at the CDC websites found in Box 8.8.3).
Box 8.8.1 Pre-travel counseling to reduce sexual risk Safe sex and risk reduction counseling, including use of condoms and emergency contraception Sexual assault prevention counseling Risk of use of alcohol and other disinhibiting drugs Focused counseling for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and other sexual minority travelers Review of sexually transmitted infections and HIV burden, including multidrug-resistant pathogens at the travel destinations Box 8.8.2 Pre-travel clinical interventions for sexually transmitted infection (STI) and pregnancy prevention Pre-travel STI or HIV screening and treatment HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) Doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis for STIs (DoxyPEP) Pregnancy prevention, including emergency contraception STI and pregnancy prevention, including condoms and other barrier methods Vaccinations Box 8.8.3 CDC websites for vaccine-preventable1 sexually transmitted infections Hepatitis A vaccine Hepatitis B vaccine Human papillomavirus vaccine Monkeypox vaccine Notes 1Vaccines require multiple doses prior to initiating travel to confer full protection (see Vaccination and Immunoprophylaxis—General Principles and Hepatitis A).
Healthcare professionals should consider providing pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV infection in travelers planning to have condomless sex.
PrEP is a highly effective method to prevent HIV acquisition among people without HIV who are at risk of being exposed.
There are three available medications for use as HIV PrEP (Table 8.8.1).
Two oral options each consist of two drugs combined in a single oral tablet taken daily.
Oral PrEP can also be used on demand, which is also known as "event driven" PrEP or 2-1-1 (two pills 2–24 hours before sex, one pill 24 hours after the first dose, and one pill 24 hours after the second dose).
This approach has been studied among men who have sex with men (MSM) but, as of February 2025, is not approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration or recommended by CDC.
More information regarding on-demand PrEP can be found on CDC's website.
The third option is cabotegravir 600 mg given by intramuscular injection.
After the initial injection, a second injection should be given at 1 month and then every 2 months thereafter.
When initiating daily oral PrEP or injectable PrEP, patients should be advised to abstain from sex or use barrier methods for the first 7 days of therapy because protection is not immediate.
Table 8.8.1: Medication options for HIV and sexually transmitted infection pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) Option 1 Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine1 300/200 mg One oral tablet daily Option 2 Tenofovir alafenamide/emtricitabine2 25/200mg One oral tablet daily Option 3 Cabotegravir3 600 mg intramuscularly After the initial injection, a second injection should be given at 1 month, and then every 2 months thereafter HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine1 300/200 mg PLUS Dolutegravir 50 mg Within 72 hours of an exposure One tablet of each orally daily × 28 days4 STI post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP or DoxyPEP) Doxycycline 200 mg orally Within 72 hours of condomless sex for eligible populations5 Notes 1Brand name Truvada; also referred to as TDF/FTC or F/TDF; available in a generic formulation.
2Brand name Descovy; also referred to as TAF/FTC or F/TAF.
3Brand name Apretude; also referred to as CAB.
4Some providers use tenofovir alafenamide/emtricitabine (TAF/FTC) 25/200 mg plus bictegravir 50 mg, available as a combined tablet (brand name, Biktarvy).
5Eligible populations are described in the 2024 CDC Doxy PEP guidelines.
People already taking HIV PrEP should continue its use during international travel.
Travelers taking PrEP should be aware that some countries deny entry to people with evidence of HIV infection.
Because PrEP medications are also used for treatment of HIV, these medications in their labeled packaging might be misconstrued by customs officials as indicating the traveler has HIV infection.
Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with anti­retroviral medications can also prevent HIV infection.
HIV PEP should be offered as a prevention method following a single high-risk exposure to HIV during sex, sharing needles or syringes, a needlestick, or following sexual assault.
To be effective, HIV PEP must be started within 72 hours of an exposure for eligible persons (see Table 8.8.1 for regimens).
Regimens are prescribed for 28 days.
HIV testing is recommended prior to initiation and after completion of treatment.
CDC guidelines state that doxycycline 200 mg administered within 72 hours of condomless sex is recommended for specific populations of patients with HIV or those taking HIV PrEP or populations who have had a history of a bacterial STI in the past 12 months.
Healthcare professionals should continue to screen, test, and treat for bacterial STIs in accordance with CDC's STI Treatment Guidelines and CDC's PrEP for the Prevention of HIV guidelines among people who may be using doxycycline as STI PEP or who use HIV PrEP.
Foundational to pre-travel counseling for STI and HIV prevention is education on the behavioral risks of condomless sex during travel.
STI incidence is increased up to three-fold in people who experience casual sex while traveling internationally, a consequence of new sexual partnerships and unprotected intercourse.
Condoms prevent STIs, HIV, and unintended pregnancy.
Travelers should consider packing condoms from their home country to avoid the need to search for them in countries visited during travel.
Condoms in luggage may need to be concealed to avoid questions related to sexual activity or assumed behaviors.
Upon return, patients who have engaged in sexual activity during travel should be asked about condomless sexual encounters, sexual partners, region of travel, clinical symptoms, and anatomic sites of sexual exposure.
STI and HIV testing should be offered based on reported history of exposure as appropriate.
HIV RNA nucleic acid amplification testing is the preferred method for diagnosing acute HIV in a person presenting with symptoms of acute retroviral syndrome.
Table 8.8.2: Pathogens associated with sexual transmission Bacteria Pathogen and Type Manifestations and Sequelae Special Considerations Campylobacter spp.
Proctitis, proctocolitis, enteritis, acute arthritis Following oral-anal exposure Chlamydia trachomatis Urethritis, epididymitis, proctitis, cervicitis, endometritis, salpingitis, perihepatitis, bartholinitis, pharyngitis, conjunctivitis, prepubertal vaginitis, prostatitis, accessory gland infection, reactive arthritis Intrapartum exposure can cause conjunctivitis and pneumonia Chlamydia trachomatis (serovars L1–L3) Lymphogranuloma venereum proctitis, suppurative lymphadenitis Escherichia coli Proctitis, proctocolitis, enteritis Following oral-anal exposure Gardnerella vaginalis Bacterial vaginosis in association with other anaerobes Haemophilus ducreyi Chancroid Now uncommon as cause of genital ulcer disease in US and Europe Klebsiella granulomatis Granuloma inguinale (Donovanosis) Mycoplasma genitalium Nongonococcal urethritis, pelvic inflammatory disease, cervicitis, prostatitis, epididymitis, possibly proctitis Widespread resistance to macrolide antibiotics Neisseria gonorrhoeae Urethritis, epididymitis, proctitis, cervicitis, endometritis, salpingitis, pelvic inflammatory disease, perihepatitis, bartholinitis, pharyngitis, conjunctivitis, prepubertal vaginitis, prostatitis, accessory gland infection, acute arthritis, septic joint, disseminated gonococcal infection (e.g., endocarditis, meningitis) Multidrug-resistant strains have been associated with infection following travel-related exposure Intrapartum exposure can cause ophthalmia neonatorum and sepsis Shigella spp.
Proctitis, proctocolitis, enteritis, acute arthritis Following oral-anal exposure Treponema pallidum Syphilis (primary, secondary, latent, and tertiary stages) In utero and intrapartum transmission can result in severe adverse outcomes Ureaplasma urealyticum Nongonococcal urethritis, cervicitis Viruses Pathogen and Type Manifestations and Sequelae Special Considerations Cytomegalovirus Heterophile-negative infectious mononucleosis, hepatitis, protean manifestations in the immunosuppressed host In utero transmission can result in severe adverse outcomes Ebola virus Fever, muscle pain, joint pain, weakness, diarrhea, vomiting, unexplained bleeding After acute infection, viral RNA can be detected in semen for up to 6 months or, in some cases, longer Epstein Barr virus Heterophile-negative mononucleosis Hepatitis A virus Acute hepatitis Following oral-anal exposure; preventive vaccination recommended based on destination country (Box 8.8.3) Hepatitis B virus Acute hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, persistent (unresolved) hepatitis, cirrhosis, polyarteritis nodosa, chronic membranous glomerulonephritis, mixed cryoglobulinemia, polymyalgia rheumatica, hepatocellular carcinoma Transmitted through exchange of blood, semen, or other body fluids; MSM are at increased risk for sexually transmitted hepatitis B virus; preventive vaccination recommendations can be found in Box 8.8.3 In utero exposure can result in infant infection.
Hepatitis C virus Acute hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, persistent (unresolved) hepatitis, cirrhosis, polyarteritis nodosa, mixed cryoglobulinemia, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, membranous nephropathy, hepatocellular carcinoma Sexual transmission is not common but has been reported in association with anal sex; clusters of hepatitis C virus infections reported among MSM in Europe, Canada, the United States, and Australia In utero exposure can result in infant infection.
Herpes simplex virus (types 1 and 2) Initial and recurrent oral and genital herpes, cervicitis, aseptic meningitis, encephalitis, neonatal herpes Suppressive therapy available to reduce symptom recurrence and transmission; intrapartum transmission can result in severe adverse outcomes Human herpesvirus type 8 Kaposi's sarcoma, primary effusion lymphoma, multicentric Castleman disease Human immunodeficiency virus (types 1 and 2) Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and opportunistic infections, acute retroviral syndrome1 HIV can be transmitted through exchange of blood, semen, vaginal fluids, or breast milk and through in utero and intrapartum exposure; pre-exposure and post-exposure prophylaxis options are available for prevention (Table 8.8.1); HIV-2 is endemic in Western Africa Human papillomavirus Condyloma acuminata, laryngeal papilloma, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and carcinoma, vaginal carcinoma, anal carcinoma, vulvar carcinoma, penile carcinoma Preventive vaccination available for people aged 9–45 years (Box 8.8.3) Human T-cell lymphotrophic virus, types I and II Human T-cell leukemia or lymphoma, tropical spastic paraparesis Molluscum contagiosum virus Genital molluscum contagiosum A poxvirus; manifestations are generally localized to the skin Monkeypox virus Anogenital and oropharyngeal lesions, proctitis, urethritis Manifestations are generally localized to the skin but can include severe oral and genital mucosal disease, eye involvement, disseminated disease (sepsis, pulmonary involvement); preventive vaccination recommendations can be found in Box 8.8.3 Zika virus Zika After acute infection, viral RNA can be detected in semen for up to 6 months or, in some cases, longer; in utero transmission can result in severe adverse outcomes Protozoa Pathogen and Type Manifestations and Sequelae Special Considerations Entamoeba histolytica Proctitis, proctocolitis, enteritis, acute arthritis Following oral-anal exposure Giardia lamblia Enteritis Following oral-anal exposure Trichomonas vaginalis Vaginitis Fungi Pathogen and Type Manifestations and Sequelae Special Considerations Candida albicans Vulvovaginitis, balanitis Dermatophytes (e.g., Trichophyton spp.) Skin infections in genital area Ectoparasites Pathogen and Type Manifestations and Sequelae Special Considerations Pthirus pubis Pubic lice infestation Sarcoptes scabiei Scabies Notes Abbreviations: MSM, men who have sex with men.
1HIV RNA nucleic acid amplification testing is the preferred method for diagnosing acute HIV in a person presenting with symptoms consistent with acute retroviral syndrome.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.
Sexually transmitted infections: Adopting a sexual health paradigm.
The National Academies Press.
 .
CDC 2021 STD Treatment Guidelines.
Sexually transmitted infections, including HIV Epidemiology The World Health Organization estimated that 374 million new infections with curable sexually transmitted pathogens (e.g., chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis, and syphilis) occurred in 2020.
According to the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), 39 million (range 33.1–45.7 million) people globally were living with HIV in 2022.
There are at least 30 infections that can be sexually transmitted, several of which are incurable, and most are not vaccine-preventable (Table 8.8.2).
The distribution of both STI and HIV prevalence and antimicrobial resistance to available treatment varies globally; some countries and regions have very high rates of infections with STIs or with HIV.
Healthcare professionals and travelers should be aware of the burden of infections at planned destinations.
International travelers having condomless sex with new partners while abroad are exposed to different sexual networks than at home and can also serve as a conduit for importing novel STIs or antimicrobial-resistant STIs into parts of the world where they are unknown or rare.
For example, rates of multidrug-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates are higher in countries in Europe, South America, and Asia.
Multidrug-resistant gonorrhea infections have been associated with commercial sex and encounters that include oral sex during travel.
Antimicrobial-resistant gonococcal infections should prompt healthcare professionals to ask patients about their travel histories and the travel histories of their sex partners.
Risk for sexually acquired viral infections while traveling primarily depends on behaviors (e.g., condomless sex, injection drug use).
Although rare, viral pathogens such as Zika virus and Ebola virus may be spread through travel-related sexual encounters in endemic or outbreak-associated countries.
In 2022, a multinational outbreak of monkeypox emerged in Europe and the Americas and then spread worldwide, with over 100,000 monkeypox cases in more than 120 countries and territories.
Infection is spread person-to-person primarily through close skin-to-skin (particularly sexual) contact.
Most cases worldwide occurred among gay, bisexual, and other MSM.
International travel played a major role in introducing the virus to non-endemic countries.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends that people at risk of monkeypox complete an monkeypox vaccination series (Box 8.8.4).
Persons who anticipate those risks, including during travel, should ideally receive the second dose of the vaccine at least 2 weeks prior to anticipated exposures.
Travelers who have not been previously vaccinated or have not previously been diagnosed with laboratory-confirmed monkeypox can receive vaccination after an exposure.
This should be administered as soon as possible (ideally within 4 days of exposure but not later than 14 days) to prevent disease or make it less severe.
Travelers who return with monkeypox symptoms should be assessed for not only monkeypox but also other infections that can be confused with monkeypox (or can occur concomitantly with monkeypox).
Supportive care, including pain control, is essential.
For those with, or at risk for, severe monkeypox manifestations, additional therapeutics should be considered.
Box 8.8.4 People at risk for monkeypox Gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men, who in the past 6 months have had 1 of the following: A new diagnosis of ≥1 sexually transmitted disease More than 1 sex partner Sex at a commercial sex venue Sex in association with a large public event in a geographic area where monkeypox transmission is occurring Being a sexual partner of persons with the risks described above Persons who anticipate experiencing any of the above Notes From 
Pregnant travelers, pregnant women who are sexual partners of returning travelers, and healthcare professionals should be aware of the manifestations of STIs in pregnancy and risks to unborn infants and neonates.
Examples of these include: Chorioamnionitis Premature rupture of membranes Premature delivery Amniotic infection syndrome Postpartum fever Maternal infection and subsequent infant infection in utero or at delivery may result in stillbirth, neonatal death, prematurity, low birth weight, congenital deformities, developmental delay, mental retardation, sensorineural deafness, otitis media, rhinitis, pneumonia, or neonatal ophthalmia.
Sex while traveling Sex while traveling encompasses casual consensual sex, sex tourism, sexual violence or assault, connection to sex trafficking, and sexual exploitation of children.
Casual consensual sex Casual consensual sex during travel describes informal, non-transactional sexual encounters with other travelers or locals.
Two meta-analyses estimated that 20–34% of male international travelers engage in casual sex abroad and that about half of all travelers participating in casual sex abroad have condomless sex.
Longer duration of travel, traveling alone or with friends, alcohol or drug use, younger age, and being single are some of the factors associated with engaging in casual sex while traveling internationally (Box 8.8.5).
Box 8.8.5 Factors associated with higher frequency of casual or condomless sex abroad Casual sex in home country and during a previous travel experience Expectation of casual sex while abroad History of previous sexually transmitted infection Illicit drug use, alcohol abuse, tobacco use Long-term travel (expatriates, military, Peace Corps volunteers) Male Single Traveling without a partner (either alone or with friends) Younger age Two or more partners in the last 2 years To lower the risk of unintended pregnancy while traveling, travelers with childbearing potential should be counseled about both contraception and emergency contraception.
There are four options for emergency contraception in the United States: The copper intrauterine device (inserted within 5 days of condomless vaginal sex) Three types of emergency contraception pills (taken as soon as possible, within 5 days of condomless vaginal sex) Emergency contraception pills include ulipristal, levonorgestrel, or combined estrogen/progestin Advance provision of emergency contraception pills prior to travel can facilitate timely emergency contraception as soon as possible after a sexual encounter.
Men who have sex with men Studies examining MSM and their sexual behavior when traveling report that MSM are more likely to engage in condomless anal intercourse with partners of unknown HIV status, to have concurrent or multiple sex partners, or to have sex in conjunction with substance use while traveling.
These can be particularly true if the reason for travel is to attend group sex events or gatherings (e.g., cruises, circuit parties), which was a key linkage to the early cases during the multinational monkeypox outbreak.
Other reports, however, indicate that MSM adapt their behaviors when traveling to destinations perceived to have a higher risk for HIV.
For example, MSM who travel internationally have been reported less likely to have condomless anal intercourse with partners abroad compared with partners encountered at home or during domestic travel.
Sex tourism Travel for the specific purpose of procuring sex is considered "sex tourism." Sex tourism destinations are frequently countries where commercial sex is legal.
In some countries, sex tourism supports sex trafficking, among the largest and most lucrative criminal industries in the world.
Sex tourists have traditionally been men from higher-income countries who travel to low- and middle-income countries to pay for sex with local women, including commercial sex workers.
Sex tourism among American and European women also has been described, particularly during travel to the Caribbean.
Having condomless sex with commercial sex workers is associated with an increased risk for STIs and HIV.
Multidrug-resistant gonorrhea infections have been linked to encounters with sex workers in both Japan and Hawaii.
Historically, fluoroquinolone and penicillin resistance among Neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates and case clusters have been linked to Asia and the Pacific Islands.
A high prevalence of HIV infection is also frequently found among sex workers.
Global estimates from systematic reviews indicate that over 10% of female sex workers are living with HIV, with the highest rates among those in East and Southern Africa (33%) and the lowest among those in the Middle East and Northern Africa (1.8%).
Both commercial sex workers and their patrons are at risk of assault, robbery, and blackmail.
Criminal prosecution is also a possibility in countries where prostitution is illegal.
Sexual violence and assault People of any age, sex, or sexual orientation can be victims of sexual violence during travel and should be aware of this risk.
The risk for sexual assault is greater among young women traveling alone and in regions of high sexual violence prevalence (e.g., central and southern Sub-Saharan Africa, Andean Latin America, Southeast Asia).
In addition, some studies have identified that young gay and bisexual males traveling internationally might be victims of sexual violence more frequently than females or heterosexual males.
Sexual violence can occur more often in association with international recreational travel, but it is also reported in travelers participating in humanitarian aid work.
Alcohol and drug use have been shown to increase vulnerability for sexual assault.
Unfamiliar cultural norms, environments, language barriers, and safety concerns might also increase the risk.
Post-sexual-assault medical care Victims of sexual violence (particularly rape) should seek immediate medical attention.
Health care sought after 72 hours could negate the benefits of PEP for HIV and STIs, lower the effectiveness of emergency contraception, and reduce the value of any collected forensic evidence.
Seeking medical care following a sexual assault can, however, be difficult in places where safety is a concern, where health care is not easily accessed, and where language, cultural, and other barriers might not facilitate appropriate evaluation .
In addition to HIV and other STI PEP, emergency contraception, and the forensic examination, medical attention after sexual assault should include treatment of injuries and provision of mental health and other supportive care.
Adolescent-adapted services, if available, should be sought to address the related but different needs of youth who have been victims of sexual violence.
Sex trafficking and sexual exploitation of children Although commercial sex work is legal in some parts of the world, sex trafficking, sex with a minor, and child pornography are always classified as criminal activities according to U.S.
law, and travelers can be prosecuted in the United States even if they participated in such activities abroad.
The Trafficking Victims Protection Act makes it illegal to recruit, entice, or obtain a person of any age to engage in commercial sex acts or to benefit from such activities.
Sex with minors Federal law prohibits U.S.
residents traveling abroad from having sex with minors; this applies to all travelers, both adult and youth.
Travel medicine professionals should inform student travelers and other young people going abroad that according to U.S.
law, it is illegal for a U.S.
resident to have sex with a minor in another country.
The legal age of consent varies around the world, from 11–21 years old.
Some countries have no legal age of consent, with local laws forbidding all sexual relations outside of marriage.
Child pornography Regardless of the local age of consent, U.S.
law states that participation in child pornography anywhere in the world is illegal.
Code Title 18, Chapter 110 prohibits sex with minors, as well as the purchase, procurement, holding, or storage of material depicting such acts.
These crimes are subject to prosecution with penalties of up to 30 years in prison.
Victims of child pornography suffer multiple forms of abuse (emotional, physical, psychological, and sexual), poverty and homelessness, and health problems, including physical injury, STIs, other infections and illnesses, drug and alcohol addiction, and malnourishment.
Sexual exploitation of children Sexual exploitation of children during travel and tourism affects all countries of the world, regardless of income level.
Offenders can include expatriates, humanitarian aid workers, international business travelers, military personnel, people attending large-scale sporting and cultural events, teachers, travelers and tourists, and volunteers.
Financial vulnerabilities of families and communities in destination countries, the availability of cheap and accessible travel, and expanding access to information and communication technologies increase opportunities for child sexual exploitation.
Combating sexual exploitation of children To combat sexual exploitation of children, some international hotels and other tourism services have voluntarily adopted a code of conduct that includes training their employees to recognize and report suspicious activities.
Tourist establishments supporting this initiative to protect children from sex tourism are listed online .
Healthcare professionals and travelers who suspect child sexual exploitation occurring abroad can report tips anonymously by calling the Homeland Security Investigations Tip Line (toll-free at 866-347-2423) or by submitting information online to U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children .
In the United States, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's Cyber Tipline collects reports of child prostitution and other crimes against children (toll-free at 800-843-5678).
The federal PROTECT Act strengthens the U.S.
government's ability to prosecute and punish crimes related to violence against children, including sex trafficking, punishable by incarceration of up to 30 years for acts committed at home or abroad.
Cooperation of the host country is required to open an investigation of criminal activity.
In some countries, the judicial system might be prone to bribery and corruption or the government may be willing to accept tourism revenue at the expense of children being trafficked for sex.
Department of State has published a list of ways to fight human trafficking , including recommendations for youth and their parents, attorneys, healthcare professionals, journalists, and other partners.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Clinical interventions to reduce sexual risk during travel Sexually transmitted infections, including HIV Sex while traveling Sexual violence and assault Sex trafficking and sexual exploitation of children RELATED PAGES Travel for Work and Other Reasons Humanitarian Aid Workers Long-Term Travelers and Expatriates International Student Travel Mass Gatherings Adventure Travel VIEW ALL Yellow Book Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Vital Signs Preventing Bloodstream Infections in People on Dialysis Actions to Reduce Inequities Can Save Lives View All Topics Updated Feb.
6, 2023 | Print 33% Black people make up 33% of all U.S.
patients receiving dialysis, but only 12% of the overall U.S.
population.
100x Adults on dialysis were 100 times more likely to have a staph bloodstream infection than adults not on dialysis during 2017–2020.
40% Hispanic patients on dialysis had 40% higher risk of staph bloodstream infections than White patients on dialysis during 2017–2020.
Overview More than 800,000 people in the U.S.
live with end-stage kidney disease, and more than half of them belong to a racial or ethnic minority group.
High blood pressure and diabetes are medical conditions that increase a person’s risk of developing end-stage kidney disease.
Some people with end-stage kidney disease have a kidney transplant, but most receive dialysis treatments (a process of filtering and removing waste products and excess fluid from the body).
Dialysis treatment puts patients at higher risk for serious infections because it requires frequent access to the bloodstream using needles or catheters (soft plastic tubes inserted into large veins).
If germs get into a patient’s blood, they can cause serious infections that may lead to sepsis (a potentially life-threatening immune system response) and even death.
Many germs can cause dialysis bloodstream infections.
The most common is a group of germs called Staphylococcus aureus (staph).
Staph infections can be difficult to treat and may be deadly.
More than 14,000 bloodstream infections occurred in patients on dialysis in the U.S.
in 2020, and more than one in three were caused by staph.
The risk for staph bloodstream infection is strongly affected by how a person’s blood circulation is connected to the dialysis machine, known as vascular access type.
Staph bloodstream infections happen more often in Black and Hispanic patients on dialysis than White patients on dialysis, although other factors besides race and ethnicity may be involved.
There are more staph bloodstream infections in areas of the U.S.
with higher poverty, more household crowding, and lower education levels (from U.S.
census data).
The good news is that bloodstream infections in patients on dialysis have gone down since 2014 with the widespread use of proven practices to prevent and control infections.
Preventing infections among patients receiving dialysis requires a broad and equitable approach to prevention and care of kidney disease for people from all racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic* groups, including: Encouraging practices that are known to prevent and slow the progression of chronic kidney disease.
Increasing the use of vascular access types that are proven to be lower risk for infections, such as fistulas and grafts, for people starting and currently on dialysis.
Continuing to apply proven practices to prevent and control infections in all U.S.
dialysis facilities.
*A way of describing people often based on their level of education, income, place of residence, and job type.
Read the full MMWR ASL video: English | Spanish Challenges High risk for infection: Infections are common among patients on dialysis.
These patients are more likely to get a staph bloodstream infection than people not on dialysis.
Staph bloodstream infections can be serious or lead to death, and some infections are resistant to some of the most common antibiotics used to treat them, making the drugs ineffective.
Racial and ethnic gaps: End-stage kidney disease affects Black and Hispanic people more than White people.
Black and Hispanic people have greater numbers of medical conditions, such as high blood pressure and diabetes, which increase their risk of developing end-stage kidney disease.
There are also differences in the types of therapies and treatments that Black and Hispanic patients receive for end-stage kidney disease.
In addition, more Black and Hispanic patients on dialysis get staph bloodstream infections than White patients on dialysis.
Social and economic factors: Lack of prevention and care of kidney disease, socioeconomic and insurance status, and lack of patient education about treatment options are all factors in end-stage kidney disease treatment differences.
Catheter use: Vascular access type is the major risk factor for bloodstream infections regardless of race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status.
There are three access types: fistula, graft, and central venous catheter.
People with any access type can develop an infection, but fistulas have the lowest risk of infection and central venous catheters have the highest risk of infection.
Adults on Dialysis Are More Likely to Have Staph Bloodstream Infections Adults on dialysis are 100 times more likely to have a staph bloodstream infection than adults not on dialysis.
View Larger Inequities Can Lead to More Staph Bloodstream Infections Race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic factors can lead to more dialysis bloodstream infections.
View Larger Increase Use of Lower-Risk Vascular Access Types for Dialysis Reducing the use of central venous catheters for people on dialysis can help prevent bloodstream infections.
View Larger What Can Be Done To Advance Health Equity Bloodstream infections are preventable in all patients on dialysis.
Actions by healthcare providers, dialysis providers, dialysis partner organizations, and public health professionals can help prevent these infections.
Extra attention should be focused on people from groups experiencing racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic differences in staph bloodstream infections.
Actions include: Promoting practices to prevent and manage chronic conditions like diabetes and high blood pressure and detecting and treating chronic kidney disease in its early stages to prevent the need for dialysis.
Counseling patients on potential treatment options, in their preferred language, before they develop end-stage kidney disease.
Coordinating efforts between patients, nephrologists, vascular access surgeons, radiologists, nurses, nurse practitioners, and social workers to reduce the use of central venous catheters for dialysis treatment.
Educating and empowering patients with culturally appropriate resources to help prevent infections and understand infection risks of different access types, especially central venous catheters.
Reducing barriers for patients receiving medical care by offering transportation assistance, insurance coverage expertise, social work services, and education resources in multiple languages.
Better information can lead to more effective infection prevention programs and catheter reduction policies that will benefit everyone on dialysis.
More data about dialysis bloodstream infections in patients of different races, ethnicities, and socioeconomic statuses can be gained by: Improving monitoring for dialysis bloodstream infections that includes racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic factors, as well as patient vascular access types.
Doing more studies to better understand racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic differences and how these impact people on dialysis.
To Prevent Infections Healthcare providers can: Use Proven Practices Follow CDC’s approach to bloodstream infection prevention in dialysis facilities, which has been shown to help reduce infections.
Raise awareness and promote use of CDC audit tools and checklists for recommended infection prevention practices.
Act fast if you suspect sepsis.
Know sepsis signs and symptoms to identify and treat patients early.
Support Catheter Reduction Educate patients and staff about end-stage kidney disease therapies, including kidney transplant and vascular access options for dialysis, with culturally appropriate materials in their preferred language.
When appropriate, refer patients to vascular access surgeons and assess patients for transplant suitability.
Identify and address barriers to central venous catheter removal and placement of permanent vascular access types, such as fistulas and grafts.
Promote education and partnership initiatives like the Making Dialysis Safer for Patients Coalition and the End Stage Renal Disease Network Program .
Everyone can: Prevent chronic kidney disease by managing diabetes and high blood pressure.
Learn about chronic kidney disease and its risk factors.
Read and share infection prevention resources for patients on dialysis.
Clean your hands often with alcohol-based hand sanitizer or soap and water to prevent the spread of germs.
Watch for signs of infection and its complications, like sepsis.
Footnotes and References email_03 Vital Signs Update Get email updates about Vital Signs Email Address What's this?
Submit VITAL SIGNS RESOURCES Digital Media Tools Last Updated Feb.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Yellow Fever Vaccine: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Recommendations and Reports July 30, 2010 / 59(RR07);1-27 Prepared by J.
Erin Staples, MD, PhD,1 Mark Gershman, MD,2 Marc Fischer, MD1 1Division of Vector-Borne Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases 2Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases Corresponding preparer: J.
Erin Staples, MD, PhD, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC, 3150 Rampart Road, MS P-02, Fort Collins, CO 80521.
Telephone: 970-225-4235; Fax: 970-266-3568; E-mail: estaples@cdc.gov.
Summary This report updates CDC's recommendations for using yellow fever (YF) vaccine (CDC.
Since the previous YF vaccine recommendations were published in 2002, new or additional information has become available on the epidemiology of YF, safety profile of the vaccine, and health regulations related to the vaccine.
This report summarizes the current epidemiology of YF, describes immunogenicity and safety data for the YF vaccine, and provides recommendations for the use of YF vaccine among travelers and laboratory workers.
YF is a vectorborne disease resulting from the transmission of yellow fever virus (YFV) to a human from the bite of an infected mosquito.
It is endemic to sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America and is estimated to cause 200,000 cases of clinical disease and 30,000 deaths annually.
Infection in humans is capable of producing hemorrhagic fever and is fatal in 20%--50% of persons with severe disease.
Because no treatment exists for YF disease, prevention is critical to lower disease risk and mortality.
A traveler's risk for acquiring YFV is determined by multiple factors, including immunization status, location of travel, season, duration of exposure, occupational and recreational activities while traveling, and local rate of virus transmission at the time of travel.
All travelers to countries in which YF is endemic should be advised of the risks for contracting the disease and available methods to prevent it, including use of personal protective measures and receipt of vaccine.
Administration of YF vaccine is recommended for persons aged ≥9 months who are traveling to or living in areas of South America and Africa in which a risk exists for YFV transmission.
Because serious adverse events can occur following YF vaccine administration, health-care providers should vaccinate only persons who are at risk for exposure to YFV or who require proof of vaccination for country entry.
To minimize the risk for serious adverse events, health-care providers should observe the contraindications, consider the precautions to vaccination before administering vaccine, and issue a medical waiver if indicated.
Introduction Yellow fever virus (YFV), a mosquito-borne flavivirus, is present in tropical areas of Africa and South America.
In humans, the majority of YFV infections are asymptomatic.
Clinical disease varies from a mild, undifferentiated febrile illness to severe disease with jaundice and hemorrhagic manifestations (1).
After an incubation period of 3--6 days, symptomatic yellow fever (YF) infections typically manifest with an abrupt onset of fever and headache (2).
As the illness progresses, other symptoms might occur, including photophobia, myalgias, arthalgias, epigastric pain, anorexia, vomiting, and jaundice (3,4).
In some persons, multisystem organ failure with hemorrhagic signs and symptoms occurs.
The case-fatality ratio of severe yellow fever with hepatorenal dysfunction is 20%--50% (1).
Because no specific antiviral treatment exists for YF, prevention is critical to lower disease risk and mortality.
YFV has three transmissiotn cycles: jungle (sylvatic), intermediate (savannah), and urban (5).
All cycles involve the transmission of YFV between primates (nonhuman or human) and mosquitoes.
Depending on the transmission cycle and location, different mosquito species are involved, and humans or nonhuman primates serve as the primary reservoir of the virus.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that YFV causes 200,000 cases of clinical disease and 30,000 deaths each year (6).
However, the majority of cases and deaths are not recognized because of the predominantly rural nature of the disease and inadequate surveillance and reporting (4,7).
In recent decades, hundreds of cases have been reported annually in South America, primarily among men with occupational exposures in forested areas (8).
In Africa, the number of cases reported from the continent annually varies substantially (range: 1--5,000 cases).
Most of the fluctuation in the annual case numbers from Africa likely is attributable to variations in reporting and recognition.
However, because the natural occurrence of disease also can fluctuate, being absent in certain areas for years before reappearing, delineation of affected areas depends on surveillance for animal reservoirs and vectors, accurate diagnosis, and prompt reporting of all human cases.
Evaluation of a traveler's risk should take into account the traveler's immunization status and planned itinerary, including location of travel, season, duration of exposure, occupational and recreational activities, and local rate of virus transmission at the time of travel.
All travelers should be provided advice on prevention of mosquito bites.
Health-care providers weighing a decision as to whether to administer YF vaccine to travelers must take into account multiple factors (e.g., the risk for travel-associated YFV disease, the high morbidity and mortality when YF does occur, country-entry requirements for YF vaccine, and the risk for serious adverse events following vaccination).
This report provides recommendations for use of YF vaccine for prevention of YF among travelers and laboratory workers.
Methods The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Yellow Fever Vaccine Work Group* (the ACIP Work Group) first met in September 2008 to review available information on the risk for YF for travelers and to revise recommendations for the use of the vaccine.
In addition to ACIP members, the ACIP Work Group included participants from the American Academy of Family Physicians, CDC, the U.S.
Department of Defense, the U.S.
Department of State, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the International Society of Travel Medicine, the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC), Boston Medical Center, and the Harvard School of Public Health.
Issues reviewed and considered by the ACIP Work Group included YF epidemiology; incidence of and risk factors for travel-associated YF disease; measures available to prevent YF disease; and YF vaccine immunogenicity, safety, and incidence of vaccine adverse events.
Further consideration was given to potential contraindications and precautions to the use of YF vaccine and International Health Regulations (IHRs) for the vaccine.
Published, peer-reviewed studies were the primary source of data used.
Articles were identified through searches of the PubMed, Global Health, and EMBASE databases; review of relevant bibliographies; and consultation with subject-matter experts.
When relevant to issues under discussion, unpublished data available at CDC also were considered.
The ACIP Work Group held monthly conference calls until May 2009.
Recommendation options were developed and discussed by the Work Group.
When evidence from clinical trials or other research studies was lacking, the recommendations incorporated expert opinion of the ACIP Work Group members.
A short overview presentation was made to ACIP at the June 2009 meeting.
Proposed recommendations and a draft statement were presented to ACIP and approved at the October 2009 meeting.
Background Yellow Fever Virus Transmission YFV is a ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus that belongs to the genus Flavivirus.
It is related antigenically to West Nile virus, St.
Louis encephalitis virus, and Japanese encephalitis virus (9).
YFV is transmitted to humans primarily through the bite of an infected Aedes or Haemagogus species mosquito (10--14).
Mosquitoes acquire the virus by feeding on infected nonhuman or human primates and then can transmit the virus to naïve nonhuman or human primates.
YFV has three transmission cycles: jungle (sylvatic), intermediate (savannah), and urban (5) (Figure 1).
The jungle (sylvatic) cycle involves transmission of the virus between nonhuman primates (e.g., monkeys) and tree-hole--breeding mosquito species found in the forest canopy (15).
The virus is transmitted via mosquitoes from monkey to human when the humans encroach into the jungle during occupational or recreational activities.
In Africa, an intermediate (savannah) cycle exists that involves transmission of the YFV from tree-hole--breeding Aedes spp.
to humans living or working in jungle border areas (16,17).
In this cycle, the virus can be transmitted from monkey to human or from human to human via these mosquitoes.
The urban cycle involves anthroponotic transmission of the virus between humans and urban mosquitoes, primarily Ae.
Humans infected with YFV experience the highest levels of viremia and are infectious to mosquitoes shortly before the onset of fever and for 3--5 days thereafter (18).
Given the high level of viremia attained in humans, bloodborne transmission theoretically could occur through transfusions or needlestick injuries.
Epidemiology of Yellow Fever Geographic Distribution and Spread YF occurs in sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America, where it is endemic and intermittently epidemic (Figure 2).
Most YF disease in these areas is attributable to sylvatic or intermediate transmission cycles.
However, urban transmission of YF does occur periodically in Africa and sporadically in South America (19--21).
In Africa, the majority of outbreaks have been reported from West Africa; fewer outbreaks have been reported from Central and East Africa (22).
The reasons for this are unknown but might include higher densities of humans and Ae.
aegypti in the west, genetic differences between YFV strains (genotypes) between the east and west, the presence of antibodies against other flaviviruses contributing to cross-protection, and mosquito species transmitting the disease in East Africa being less likely to bite humans (5,22,23).
During West African outbreaks, up to 30% of the population is infected with YFV, and 3%--4% develop clinical disease (24,25).
Since 2008, an increased number of YF cases have been reported from Central African countries (e.g., the Central African Republic, Congo, and Chad) (26,27; WHO, unpublished data, 2009).
Many of these countries have reported YF cases infrequently in the past, and whether the recent reports of cases in these countries are attributable to improved surveillance or to increased disease activity either locally or via extension from neighboring endemic areas is unclear.
In South America, transmission of YFV occurs predominantly in sparsely populated forested areas rather than in urban areas.
Most YF cases are reported from the Orinoco, Amazon, and Araguaia river basins and contiguous grasslands (28).
Peru and Bolivia have the highest cumulative incidence of YF over the past 20 years (29).
In Brazil, most cases are reported from the Amazon and western Brazil.
However, starting in 2007, cases have been identified in more southern and eastern provinces, including Sao Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul, and Goias states (30--32).
During this same time, areas contiguous with southern Brazil in northern Argentina and Paraguay also have had confirmed cases of YF, representing the first reemergence of the virus in these regions since the 1970s (31).
In addition to the expansion of the endemic zone of the disease in recent years, Ae.
aegypti also have reinfested many urban centers in South America, increasing the risk for urban outbreaks of YF in the Americas, as occurred in 2007 in Asunción, Paraguay (21).
Although urban outbreaks of YF occurred in North America and Europe until the early 1900s, autochthonous transmission has not been reported over the past several decades.
Local YFV transmission never has been identified in Asia or Australia.
However, these areas are at risk for importation, as many urban areas in these regions have Ae.
aegypti and have a large susceptible human population (33).
As a result, some countries in which the disease is not endemic (e.g., India and Australia) require proof of YF vaccination from travelers arriving from regions in which YFV is endemic (34).
Incidence and Burden of Disease WHO estimates that 200,000 cases of YF and 30,000 deaths attributable to YF occur annually worldwide (6).
However, only a limited percentage of these cases are identified because of underreporting (24,25).
During 1988--2007, a total of 26,356 YF cases were reported to WHO, including 23,056 (87%) cases from sub-Saharan Africa and 3,300 (13%) from South America (1,35--37).
In Africa, the number of cases reported annually varies widely (range: 1--5,000), which suggests inconsistencies in surveillance and reporting.
In South America, as many as 524 cases per year have been reported to WHO.
The case-fatality ratio is highly variable but is approximately 20% in Africa and approximately 50% in South America (1).
The higher case-fatality ratio in South America is believed to be the result of enhanced diagnostic testing of persons with fatal disease rather than an indication of a more virulent form of the disease (5).
Ecologic and Seasonal Patterns The ecology of YFV is complex, and multiple factors contribute to its transmission.
In general, increased temperature, humidity, and rainfall lead to higher mosquito abundance and consequently an increase in viral circulation (38,39).
In South America, YF incidence is highest during months of increased rainfall, humidity, and temperature (January--May) (40).
In intermediate zones of West Africa, YFV activity increases during the middle of the rainy season (around August) and peaks during the early dry season (October) (40,41).
This period corresponds to the period of maximum longevity of mosquito vectors.
Because Ae.
aegypti breed in containers used for water storage, mosquito activity and reproduction patterns are less dependent on rainfall (41).
As a result, when Ae.
aegypti are involved in virus transmission, YF also can occur in the dry season.
Age-Specific Patterns The age-specific patterns of YF disease in Africa and South America differ and are affected by sex and occupation.
In Africa, cases often occur in villages in the savannah region contiguous with the forest.
Children are predominantly affected, as older persons in the community frequently have naturally acquired or vaccine-acquired immunity (24).
In South America, YF disease occurs most frequently in unvaccinated young men who are exposed to mosquito vectors through their work in forested or jungle areas (42,43).
Occupations involving lumbering and forest clearing for building or road construction have been linked to human infection (28).
The age and sex distribution of YF cases in urban areas of South America differs from that observed in jungle areas, with a higher prevalence of infections occurring among children and women attributable to Ae.
aegypti breeding around homes (21).
Clinical Manifestations and Diagnosis Signs and Symptoms In the majority of persons infected with YFV, infections are believed to be asymptomatic (24,25).
Clinical disease varies from a mild, undifferentiated febrile illness to severe disease with jaundice and hemorrhagic manifestations.
The incubation period is usually 3--6 days (1,2).
In its mildest form, YF is a self-limited infection characterized by sudden onset of fever and headache without other symptoms (3).
The patient appears acutely ill, and examination might demonstrate bradycardia in relation to the elevated body temperature (Faget's sign).
The patient is usually viremic during this period, which lasts for approximately 3 days.
Many patients have an uneventful recovery, but in approximately 15% of infected persons, the illness recurs in more severe form within 48 hours following the viremic period (44).
Symptoms include fever, nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, jaundice, renal insufficiency, and cardiovascular instability (4).
Viremia generally is absent during this phase of symptom recrudescence.
A bleeding diathesis can occur, with hematemesis, melena, metrorrhagia, hematuria, petechiae, ecchymoses, epistaxis, and oozing blood from the gingiva and needle-puncture sites.
Physical findings include scleral and dermal icterus, hemorrhages, and epigastric tenderness without hepatic enlargement (44).
Clinical Laboratory Findings Multiple laboratory abnormalities can be observed in patients with YF; these can vary depending on the severity and stage of illness.
In the first week of the illness, leukopenia might occur; however, leukocytosis also can occur during the second week of the disease (3).
Bleeding dyscrasias also can occur, together with elevated prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times, decreased platelet count, and presence of fibrin-split products (45,46).
Hyperbilirubinemia might be present as early as the third day but usually peaks toward the end of the first week of illness.
Elevations of serum transaminase levels occur in severe hepatorenal disease and might remain elevated for up to 2 months after onset (47).
Preliminary diagnosis is based on the patient's clinical features, YF vaccination status, and travel history, including destination, time of year, and activities.
Mild YF cannot be distinguished clinically from a range of other infections.
Cases of YF with jaundice must be differentiated from viral hepatitis, malaria, leptospirosis, Congo-Crimean hemorrhagic fever, Rift Valley fever, typhoid, Q fever, and typhus, as well as surgical, drug-induced, and toxic causes of jaundice (17).
The other viral hemorrhagic fevers, which usually manifest without jaundice, include dengue hemorrhagic fever, Lassa fever, Marburg and Ebola virus diseases, and Bolivian, Argentinean, and Venezuelan hemorrhagic fevers (48,49).
Laboratory Confirmation Laboratory diagnosis generally is accomplished by testing serum to detect virus-specific immunoglobulin M (IgM) and immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies by serologic assays (50).
Serologic cross-reactions occur with other flaviviruses (e.g., West Nile or dengue viruses), so positive results should be confirmed with a more specific test (e.g., plaque reduction neutralization test) (49).
However, by the time overt symptoms are recognized, the virus or viral RNA usually is undetectable.
Therefore, virus isolation and RT-PCR should not be used for excluding the diagnosis of YF.
Immunohistochemical staining of formalin-fixed material can detect YFV antigen on histopathologic specimens (51).
Health-care providers should contact their state or local health department and CDC (at telephone 1-970-221-6400) for assistance with diagnostic testing for YFV infections.
Treatment and Management Although multiple drugs have been evaluated or used empirically to treat YF disease, to date, none has demonstrated specific benefit (52).
Management is supportive and based on symptoms and the organ systems involved.
Patients with multisystem organ involvement likely will require critical-care support with possible mechanical ventilation or hemodialysis.
Rest, fluids, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or acetaminophen can relieve milder symptoms of fever and myalgias.
Aspirin should be avoided because of the risk for hemorrhagic complications.
Infected persons should be protected from further mosquito exposure (staying indoors and/or under a mosquito net) during the first few days of illness so they do not contribute to the transmission cycle.
Outcome and Sequelae The majority of persons with mild YF illness recover without long-term sequelae.
For those with severe disease involving hepatorenal dysfunction, the length of illness is variable, and the case-fatality ratio is 20%--50% (1).
Risk factors for death include hypotension, shock, renal failure, severe hemorrhagic disease, coma, and convulsions (44).
For those who survive, convalescence often is prolonged, lasting several weeks.
Rarely, death can occur at the end of convalescence or even weeks after complete recovery from the acute illness.
These late deaths are thought to be attributable to myocardial damage and cardiac arrhythmia (53).
Secondary bacterial infections (e.g., pneumonia) also can complicate recovery.
Jaundice has been observed for up to 3 months after recovery from serologically documented YF (45).
Yellow Fever Among Travelers During 1970--2009, nine cases of YF were reported in unvaccinated travelers from the United States and Europe who traveled to West Africa (five cases) or South America (four cases) (54--63).
Eight of these nine travelers died (19,40).
Only one case of YF has been documented in a vaccinated traveler, a female aged 37 years from Spain who visited several West African countries during 1988 (56).
A traveler's risk for acquiring YF is determined by multiple factors, including immunization status, use of personal protection measures against mosquito bites, location of travel, duration of exposure, occupational and recreational activities while traveling, and local rate of virus transmission at the time of travel.
In both West Africa and South America, YFV transmission typically is seasonal and is associated with the mid-to-late rainy season ().
However, YFV can be transmitted by Ae.
aegypti even during the dry season in both rural and densely settled urban areas (41).
Although the number of reported cases of human disease often is used to estimate the crude level of endemic transmission, cases might not be reported because of a low level of transmission, a high level of immunity in the local population (e.g., because of vaccination), or cases not being detected by local surveillance systems.
Therefore, a lack of human disease cases in an area does not equate to absence of risk for transmission.
The risk for acquiring YF is difficult to predict because of variations in ecologic determinants of virus transmission.
For a 2-week stay, the estimated risks for illness and death attributable to YF for an unvaccinated traveler traveling to an area of West Africa where the disease is endemic are 50 and 10 cases per 100,000 population, respectively; for South America, the risks for illness and death are five cases and one case per 100,000 population, respectively (40).
These crude estimates for unvaccinated travelers are based on risk to indigenous populations, often during peak transmission season.
Thus, these risk estimates might not reflect accurately the actual risk to travelers, who might have a different immunity profile, take precautions against getting bitten by mosquitoes, and have less outdoor exposure.
The risk for acquiring YF in South America might be lower than that in Africa because the mosquitoes that transmit the virus between monkeys in the forest canopy do not come in contact with humans often, and local residents have a relatively high level of immunity secondary to widespread vaccine use.
Yellow Fever Vaccine YF vaccine was first developed in the 1930s after successful attenuation of the Asibi strain of YFV (64).
Two vaccines were established: the 17D and the French neurotropic vaccines.
The French neurotropic vaccine was manufactured until 1982, when production was stopped because of higher rates of neurologic adverse events reported following use of the vaccine (1).
Two 17D substrain vaccines are manufactured today: the 17DD and 17D-204 YF vaccines.
The YFV strains in these two vaccines share 99.9% sequence homology (65).
The 17DD YF vaccine is manufactured in Brazil and is used in Brazil and many other South American countries.
The 17D-204 vaccine is manufactured and used outside of Brazil, including in the United States.
Studies comparing the various 17D YF vaccines produced by multiple manufacturers suggest that the reactogenicity or immune responses generated by these vaccines do not differ (66--70).
Thus persons who receive YF vaccines in countries other than the United States should be considered protected against YF.
Vaccine Composition, Storage, and Handling The 17D-204 strain vaccine, YF-VAX (manufactured by sanofi pasteur, Swiftwater, Pennsylvania), is a freeze-dried supernatant of centrifuged embryo homogenate, packaged in 1-dose and 5-dose vials for domestic use.
The vaccine should be stored at temperatures of 35ºF--46ºF (2ºC--8ºC) until it is reconstituted by the addition of diluent (sterile, physiologic saline) supplied by the manufacturer.
Multidose vials of reconstituted vaccine should be stored at 35ºF--46ºF (2ºC--8ºC) for up to 1 hour.
Any unused vaccine that is not used within 1 hour of reconstitution must be discarded (71).
Correlates of Protection No human studies have been performed to determine the correlates of protection for YFV infection.
However, dose-response studies conducted in rhesus monkeys have established the minimal level of neutralizing antibodies needed to protect the monkeys against virulent YFV.
Testing was conducted with constant amounts of serum and varying dilutions of virus to establish a log10 neutralization index (LNI).
Although the amount of serum needed for LNI testing is suitable for animal studies or clinical trials, it precludes routine screening among humans (1).
Therefore, a similar test, plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT), which uses a constant amount of virus and varying dilutions of serum, is used most frequently in diagnostic tests to determine the absence or presence of neutralizing antibodies and the specific serum antibody titer.
Efficacy and Immunogenicity No human efficacy studies have been performed with YF vaccine.
However, several observations support YF vaccine being protective in humans, including 1) the reduction of laboratory-associated infections in vaccinated workers, 2) the observation following initial use of the vaccine in Brazil and other South American countries that YF occurred only in unvaccinated persons, and 3) the rapid disappearance of cases during YF vaccination campaigns initiated during epidemics.
Unpublished reports comparing YF incidence among vaccinated and unvaccinated populations during a 1986 epidemic in Nigeria estimated vaccine effectiveness to be approximately 85% (1).
Worldwide, only five cases of YF have been reported in vaccine recipients since YF vaccine has been in use; whether any or all of them were vaccinated properly with appropriately handled YF vaccine is uncertain (1).
Following YF vaccine administration, primary vaccine recipients often develop a low-level viremia with the vaccine virus.
The viremia usually occurs within 3--7 days and persists for 1--3 days, abating as YFV IgM antibodies are developed (73,74).
The level of viremia following vaccination is high enough to be transmitted through blood products.
Transfusion-related transmission of YF vaccine virus has been documented in three persons who received blood products that were collected from persons vaccinated 4 days before their blood donation (75).
Studies have demonstrated that 80%--100% of vaccinated persons develop neutralizing antibodies by 10 days after vaccination (74,76,77).
Overall, the vaccine-induced antibodies are delayed in their formation and at lower titers compared with antibodies developed in response to wild-type YFV infection (1).
A study of two YF vaccines (YF-VAX and Arilvax) in 1,440 healthy adults found different neutralizing antibody responses to the vaccine, depending on sex and race.
For both vaccines, males and Caucasians were noted to have higher LNI levels when compared with females, blacks, and Hispanics (66).
The age at which a person is vaccinated with YF vaccine does not appear to affect immunologic response to the vaccine (1).
IHRs allow countries to require proof of YF vaccination as a condition of entry for travelers arriving from certain countries to prevent importation and indigenous transmission of YFV.
IHRs stipulate that the vaccination certificate for YF is valid beginning 10 days after administration of YF vaccine for primary vaccine recipients (78).
This time period corresponds to the time at which the majority of vaccinees demonstrate immunity.
The YF vaccination certificate for international travel is valid for 10 years.
Later studies of U.S.
Healthy persons rarely fail to develop neutralizing antibodies following YF vaccination.
In controlled clinical trials, the primary failure rate is generally about 1% (66).
Persons who fail to develop antibody after their first vaccination can develop antibody upon revaccination (81).
Three host factors have been associated with failure to respond immunologically to YF vaccine: pregnancy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and malnutrition.
In one study, only 39% of pregnant women seroconverted after receiving the vaccine in their third trimester (82).
This difference was attributed to the altered immune state associated with pregnancy and suggests the need to revaccinate at-risk women who were vaccinated during pregnancy.
However, a more recent study indicated that 425 (98%) of 441 women who were vaccinated inadvertently with YF vaccine, primarily during their first trimester, developed YFV-specific neutralizing antibodies (83).
Therefore, revaccination might not be necessary in women who received vaccine during pregnancy, but antibody titers should be checked to ensure an appropriate immune response in women still at risk for the disease.
HIV infection has been associated with a reduced immunologic response to a number of inactivated and live, attenuated vaccines, including YF vaccine (84).
However, a recent retrospective cohort study indicated that significantly fewer HIV-infected persons had YFV neutralizing antibodies at 1 year after vaccination compared with vaccinated uninfected persons (83% and 97%, respectively; p=0.01) (86).
The study measured YFV neutralizing antibodies in HIV-infected persons with median baseline CD4 count of 496 cells/mm3 (range: 72--1,730 cells/mm3) and varying levels of HIV RNA detected in their blood (52% had HIV RNA levels ≥50 copies/mL).
Among HIV-infected infants in one developing nation, only 17% developed neutralizing antibodies within 10 months of YF vaccine compared with 74% of HIV-uninfected controls matched for age and nutritional status (87).
The mechanisms for this observed difference in immune response among HIV-infected persons are uncertain but appear to correlate with HIV RNA level and CD4 count.
Further studies are required to assess the relevance of these findings.
Adverse Events General Events After YF vaccination, vaccinees have reported mild headaches, myalgia, low-grade fevers, or other minor symptoms for 5--10 days (71).
Localized pain, swelling, erythema, or warmth might occur at the injection site for up to a week following vaccination.
In one large study of 1,440 vaccine recipients, the most common systemic side effects were headache (33% of subjects), myalgia (25%), malaise (19%), fever (15%), and chills (11%) (66).
These side effects generally were mild, and only 1% of vaccinees curtailed their regular activities as a result.
In the only placebo-controlled trial of 1,007 adults vaccinated with either YF vaccine (the 17-DD vaccine virus strain) or placebo, 3% of reported local reactions and 7% of systemic reactions were attributed to vaccine (88).
The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is a passive surveillance system for adverse events following vaccination operated collaboratively by CDC and FDA.
Adverse event reports can be submitted to VAERS from a variety of sources, including vaccine providers and recipients, medical practitioners, and manufacturers.
The rate of any adverse events following YF vaccine as reported to VAERS is 43 adverse events per 100,000 doses distributed (89).
The majority of reported adverse events are classified as nonserious (rate: 38 per 100,000 population) and include reports of fever, injection-site pain, injection-site erythema, pruritis, headache, urticaria, and rash.
The majority of events occur a median of 1 day after vaccination; roughly 60% occur within the first 2 days after vaccination.
During 2000--2006, a rate of 4.7 serious adverse events per 100,000 doses distributed was derived from VAERS data.
Reporting rates were highest among persons aged ≥60 years (8.3 per 100,000 doses).
Three well-characterized serious adverse events occur following YF vaccine administration: 1) immediate hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reactions, 2) YF vaccine-associated neurologic disease (YEL-AND), and 3) YF vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD).
In 2002, CDC formed the Yellow Fever Vaccine Safety (YFVS) Working Group, consisting of vaccine safety experts from CDC and partner organizations.
The YFVS Working Group systematically reviewed VAERS reports for YF vaccine and devised a surveillance case definition for YEL-AND and YEL-AVD (Boxes 1 and 2) to help classify cases and determine rates of these adverse events.
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Reactions Multiple components of YF vaccine have been cited as possible allergens, including eggs, chicken proteins, gelatin, or latex (found in vial stopper) (71).
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, characterized by urticaria and respiratory symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, bronchospasm, or pharyngeal edema) are uncommon and occur principally among persons with histories of allergies to egg or other substances (90).
However, anaphylaxis has been reported to occur in persons with no history of reactions to the vaccine's components.
Rates of anaphylaxis from VAERS data vary (range: 0.8--1.8 events per 100,000 doses distributed) (89,90).
YEL-AND YEL-AND is a serious but rarely fatal adverse event.
YEL-AND manifests as several distinct clinical syndromes, including meningoencephalitis (neurotropic disease), Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), and bulbar palsy (91,92).
Meningoencephalitis occurs as a result of direct YF vaccine viral invasion of the central nervous system (CNS) with infection of the meninges and/or the brain.
The other neurologic syndromes (e.g., GBS and ADEM) represent autoimmune manifestations in which antibodies and/or T-cells produced in response to the vaccine cross-react with neuronal epitopes and lead to central or peripheral nerve damage.
Through the attenuation process, YF vaccine virus strains were determined to develop neurovirulence (93,94).
Early in the vaccine's history, multiple cases of encephalitis associated with vaccine administration were noted and determined to be attributable to too few or too many passages of the virus during the attenuation process.
This observation led to the establishment of a vaccine seed lot system in 1945 that clearly defined the number of passages allowed for certain strains of the vaccine (95).
However, even after the implementation of the seed lot system, additional cases of encephalitis associated with YF vaccine continued to be reported.
Consequently, recommendations were made in the 1960s restricting the use of YF vaccine to infants aged ≥6 months (97).
Subsequently, the number of cases of encephalitis reported in infants diminished.
A total of 29 cases of YEL-AND (nine of meningoencephalitis, eight of GBS, three of ADEM, one of bulbar palsy, and eight cases with insufficient data to classify) that occurred during 1990--2006 were reviewed retrospectively or prospectively by the YFVS Working Group (91,92,98,99).
The 29 cases had a varied time from vaccination to symptom onset (range: 3--28 days).
For the 25 cases with data available on age, there again was a wide variation in age range (range: 6--78 years).
All cases were reported to occur in first-time vaccine recipients.
The patient developed fever and malaise 3 days after his vaccination and became encephalopathic at 5 days postvaccination.
He died at 9 days following vaccination.
Data regarding the specific age and illness onset for the different neurologic presentations can be derived from VAERS reports (91).
Of six reported encephalitis cases, the median age was 54 years (range: 16--78 years), and median time to onset after vaccination was 14 days (range: 5--24 days).
For the six GBS cases, the median age was 53 years (range: 17--68 years), and median time to onset after vaccination was 13 days (range: 7--27 days).
Finally, for the three ADEM cases, the median age was 19 years (range: 18--61 years), and median time to onset after vaccination was 15 days (range: 7--20 days).
A recently published report has included the first report of a case of longitudinal myelitis in a male aged 56 years who received no other vaccines (100).
YFV IgM antibodies were detected in his cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serologic testing for other regional flaviviruses was negative.
However, the time to symptom onset was 45 days after vaccination, which is longer than that reported for all other YEL-AND cases.
A second recently published report concerned a male aged 23 years who presented originally with meningoencephalitis but was later determined to have ADEM (101).
The diagnosis of ADEM was determined by magnetic resonance imaging of the brain.
The diagnostic testing for YEL-AND is specific to the clinical presentation.
For cases with meningitis or encephalitis, the detection of the YF vaccine virus in CSF either by culture or nucleic acid amplification is diagnostic.
The detection of YFV IgM and specific neutralizing antibodies in the CSF also supports the diagnosis.
YFV IgM antibodies are not believed to cross the blood-brain barrier normally, so their production in CSF is considered indicative of local CNS infection.
For autoimmune mediated events, no specific YF testing is available.
The diagnosis of these conditions should be made using appropriate studies (e.g., neuroimaging, electroencephalography, electromyelography, and nerve conduction studies).
Because no confirmatory YFV-specific laboratory test exists for the autoimmune syndromes of ADEM and GBS, the YFVS Working Group case definition only specifies "suspect" and "probable" levels of causality.
If no evidence of another diagnosis exists, a case is classified further depending on whether YF vaccine was the only vaccine administered.
Diagnostic testing for suspected YEL-AND cases is available from CDC at 
Treatment for YEL-AND also depends on the particular clinical syndrome.
Treatment for meningoencephalitis is supportive, and manifestations such as seizures or autonomic dysfunction should be managed according to acceptable medical standards for each disorder.
For autoimmune neurologic manifestations associated with YF vaccine, treatment often includes intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) or plasmapheresis for GBS, and corticosteroids, IVIG, or plasmapheresis for ADEM (102,103).
YEL-AND rarely is fatal.
In addition to the case described previously of fatal encephalitis in a person with HIV, four other deaths have been reported attributable to YEL-AND (1,104).
One fatal case of encephalitis occurred in a girl aged 3 years who was vaccinated in 1965 (104).
Molecular studies of the YF vaccine virus isolated from the brain of this patient demonstrated that the virus had mutated and become more neurovirulent as documented in monkey studies (105).
This is the only case in which a mutation of the vaccine virus has been linked to an adverse outcome in a recipient.
Three other fatal YEL-AND cases were reported unofficially from a hospital-based surveillance system for postvaccine encephalitis in Kenya after a mass vaccination campaign in 1993 (1).
The incidence rate of YF vaccine-associated encephalitis in very young infants has been estimated on the basis of reports from the time period before institution of the age restriction for vaccination to be 50--400 cases per 100,000 population (96,106).
From VAERS data, the reporting rate for YEL-AND is 0.4--0.8 cases per 100,000 doses distributed (89,107).
The reporting rate was higher for persons aged ≥60 years, with a rate of 1.6 cases per 100,000 doses distributed in persons aged 60--69 years and 1.1--2.3 cases per 100,000 doses distributed for persons aged ≥70 years.
These estimates most likely are low given underreporting.
In countries in which YF is endemic, a national vaccine adverse event surveillance system might not exist or, if one does exist, be consistent and sensitive enough to detect the majority of YEL-AND cases that do occur.
However, an unofficial report from a hospital-based surveillance system for postvaccine encephalitis in Kenya after a mass vaccination campaign estimated the incidence of YEL-AND to be 0.6 cases per 100,000 doses (1).
YEL-AVD In 2001, a previously unrecognized serious adverse reaction among recipients of YF vaccine was first described (48,108--113).
This syndrome initially was termed febrile multiple organ system failure; the name subsequently was changed to YEL-AVD.
YEL-AVD mimics naturally acquired YF disease, with the vaccine virus proliferating and disseminating throughout the host's tissues.
As of February 2010, a total of 57 cases of YEL-AVD have been reported to CDC from 14 countries (Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Germany, Japan, Peru, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States).
The cases have occurred in association with the different substrains of YF vaccine produced by several manufacturers.
On the basis of an analysis of cases for which information is available, YEL-AVD has occurred only following a recipient's first YF vaccination; no cases of YEL-AVD occurring in persons receiving booster doses of the vaccine have been reported.
Of the 53 persons with YEL-AVD cases whose sex is known, 32 (60%) were male.
The overall median age was 50 years (range: 3--81 years) but differed by sex, with a median age of 62 years (range: 4--81 years) in males and 24 years (range: 3--79 years) in females.
The median time from vaccination until symptom onset was 3 days (range: 1--8 days).
The median time from YF vaccination until death was 10 days (range: 7--30 days).
Whether age and case-fatality ratio differences between sexes reflect sex-specific host factors or are a function of surveillance or reporting bias is unclear.
Patients with YEL-AVD typically develop fever and other nonspecific signs and symptoms (including headache, malaise, myalgias, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea) within 1 week of vaccination.
As the illness progresses, jaundice and laboratory abnormalities (e.g., thrombocytopenia, elevations of hepatic transaminases, total bilirubin, and creatinine) might occur.
Leukopenia or leukocytosis might be present, depending on the stage and severity of the illness.
Persons with severe cases can develop hypotension, hemorrhage, renal failure requiring hemodialysis, and respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation.
Less frequent complications include rhabdomyolysis and disseminated intravascular coagulation.
No specific therapy exists for YEL-AVD, and, assuming other diseases have been excluded, treatment is supportive.
YF vaccine-specific laboratory testing can assist in making the diagnosis.
In fatal cases, when an autopsy has been performed, immunohistochemistry can be performed on fixed tissues to detect YFV antigen, and RT-PCR can be performed on RNA extracted from frozen tissues to verify the presence of YF vaccine virus versus wild-type YFV.
Liver tissue can have characteristic histopathologic findings (e.g., midzonal necrosis, microvesicular fatty changes, and Councilman bodies) (114).
Diagnostic testing for suspect YEL-AVD cases is available from CDC at 
Several risk estimates for YEL-AVD have been published.
On the basis of VAERS data, the reporting rate of YEL-AVD is 0.3--0.4 cases per 100,000 doses distributed (89,107).
Similar to YEL-AND, reporting rates also are highest among persons aged ≥60 years, with rates of 1.0--1.1 cases per 100,000 doses distributed in persons aged 60--69 years and 2.3--3.2 cases per 100,000 doses distributed for persons aged ≥70 years.
An analysis of YEL-AVD cases that occurred in Europe during 1996--2003 yielded an overall incidence of 0.3 cases per 100,000 doses distributed (92).
However, more recent risk estimates from Brazil have identified overall YEL-AVD rates similar to those from the United States and Europe (CDC, unpublished data, 2010).
Almost all cases of YEL-AVD have occurred in persons who received different lots of vaccine.
However, at least one known cluster has been reported involving five cases of YEL-AVD associated with the same lot of YF vaccine (116).
This cluster occurred in 2007 after a vaccination campaign in an area of Peru in which the disease was not endemic.
Four patients died of confirmed YEL-AVD.
The overall incidence of YEL-AVD in this campaign was 7.9 cases per 100,000 doses distributed, compared with a lot-specific incidence of 11.7 cases per 100,000 doses distributed for the implicated lot.
A thorough investigation detected no abnormalities of the implicated vaccine lot and no common risk factors among the five case patients.
The incidence of YEL-AVD associated with this campaign in Peru is substantially higher than previous risk estimates from other countries and remains unexplained.
To date, two specific risk factors for YEL-AVD have been identified: older age and a history of thymus disease or thymectomy.
The two analyses of VAERS reports of YEL-AVD in the United States yielded reporting rates of YEL-AVD for persons aged ≥60 years of 1.4--1.8 cases per 100,000 doses distributed (89,107).
This age-specific rate is several-fold higher than the overall reported rate of 0.3--0.4 cases per 100,000 doses distributed.
Four (17%) of the first 23 patients with YEL-AVD identified had a history of thymectomy for either a benign or malignant thymoma (117).
The details of these cases suggest that a history of thymus disease is a risk factor for YEL-AVD.
In 2003, the package insert for YF vaccine available in the United States was updated to include a history of thymus disorder as a contraindication to vaccine administration (71).
No additional cases of YEL-AVD identified since 2004 have involved a history of thymus disease.
A number of cases of YEL-AVD have involved a history of autoimmune disease or diseases with potential autoimmune etiology.
These include three patients with systemic lupus erythematosis, two with Addison's disease, one with Crohn's disease in remission, one with a history of polymyalgia rheumatica and hypothyroidism, one with ulcerative colitis, and one with myasthenia gravis (108,116,117; CDC, unpublished data, 2010).
These cases suggest that autoimmune disease might be a risk factor for YEL-AVD.
Therefore, more information is needed regarding the number of patients with underlying autoimmune disease who are vaccinated safely to better address the potential risk for YEL-AVD in persons with autoimmune disease.
Although studies on certain cases of YEL-AVD have identified potential genetic risk factors (118), no common genetic abnormality has been demonstrated.
No conclusive evidence has been reported that demonstrates that YEL-AVD has been caused by a reversion to increased virulence in the vaccine (114,119).
Vaccination of Women During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding No data are available on the YF disease risk for pregnant or breastfeeding women and their fetuses or infants.
However, on the basis of surveillance and outbreak data, pregnant and breastfeeding women do not appear to be at risk for more severe YF disease.
The use of YF vaccine during pregnancy has not been studied in a large prospective trial (FDA Pregnancy Category C).
Limited data are available from a number of studies in which pregnant women either were vaccinated inadvertently or administered the vaccine in outbreak settings.
Two studies involving 81 infants whose mothers had received YF vaccine identified YFV IgM antibodies in the cord blood of one infant shortly after birth (82,120).
These findings suggest that infection of the fetus with YF vaccine can occur, albeit at a low incidence (i.e., one of 81).
A study of 304 infants born to women who were vaccinated with YF vaccine early in their pregnancies found no increased risk for major malformations (121).
An increased risk was identified for minor malformations (e.g., pigmented nevi), but the finding could have resulted from assessment bias.
One study of 39 pregnant women who were vaccinated with YF vaccine identified a higher rate of spontaneous abortions in pregnant women receiving the vaccine, with a relative risk of 2.3, but the difference was not statistically significant (95% confidence interval = 0.7--8.0; p=0.2) (122).
A more recent study of 441 women inadvertently vaccinated early in their pregnancy did not find an increased risk for fetal death (7.4/1,000 in vaccinated women versus 18.5/1,000 unvaccinated women in the general population) (83).
The proportion of women vaccinated during pregnancy who develop YFV antibodies is variable and might be related to the trimester in which they received vaccine.
Of 101 pregnant women receiving YF vaccine predominantly in their third trimester, 39% had evidence of seroconversion to YFV (82).
Of 433 women vaccinated predominantly in the first trimester, 425 (98%) developed YFV-specific neutralizing antibodies (83).
Because pregnancy might affect immunologic function, serologic testing to document an immune response to the vaccine should be considered.
No evidence exists that breastfeeding mothers have an altered response to YF vaccine.
Very limited safety data are available on the use of YF vaccine in breastfeeding women and their infants.
One probable and one confirmed case of YEL-AND have been reported in infants whose mothers were vaccinated with YF vaccine (PHAC, unpublished data, 2008; 123).
YF vaccine virus was recovered from the CSF of the confirmed case patient, and YFV-specific IgM antibodies were detected in the probable case-patient's CSF.
Testing was not performed on the breast milk in either case to confirm the presence of vaccine virus.
RNA from West Nile virus, a related flavivirus, has been identified in breast milk, which suggests that this is a plausible mode of transmission (124,125).
Further research is needed to document the risk for potential vaccine exposure through breastfeeding.
Summary of Rationale for YF Vaccine Recommendations YF is a vectorborne disease resulting from the transmission of YFV to a human from the bite of an infected mosquito.
It is endemic to sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America.
Infection in humans is capable of producing hemorrhagic fever and is fatal in 20%--50% of persons with severe disease.
Because no treatment exists for YF disease, prevention is critical to lower disease risk and mortality.
The risk for acquiring YF for travelers is determined by multiple factors, including vaccination status, location of travel, season, duration of exposure, occupational and recreational activities while traveling, and local rate of virus transmission at the time of travel.
Although only 10 cases of imported YF in travelers from Europe (seven cases) or the United States (three cases) have been reported since 1970, the low number of cases is likely, at least in part, to be a result of the routine use of the vaccine.
In attempts to minimize the potential importation and spread of the disease into new areas, many countries enforce the IHR and have vaccine requirements for entry.
Decisions regarding the use of YF vaccine for travelers must take into account the overall risk for travel-associated YFV disease, the high mortality when it does occur, vaccine requirements per IHR, contraindications or precautions for vaccination, and risk for serious adverse events following YF vaccine administration.
Recommendations for the Use of YF Vaccine in Laboratory Workers YF vaccine is recommended for laboratory personnel who might be exposed to virulent YFV or to concentrated preparations of YF vaccine virus strains by direct or indirect contact or by aerosols.
Recommendations for Prevention of YF Among Travelers All travelers to countries in which YF is endemic should be advised of the risks for the disease and available methods to prevent it, including personal protective measures and vaccine.
Personal Protective Measures All travelers should take precautions to avoid mosquito bites to reduce the risk for YF and other vector-borne infectious diseases.
These precautions include using insect repellent, wearing permethrin-impregnated clothing, and staying in accommodations with screened or air-conditioned rooms.
Additional information on protection against mosquitoes and other arthropods is available at 
Recommendations for the Use of YF Vaccine in Travlers YF vaccine is recommended for persons aged ≥9 months who are traveling to or living in areas at risk for YFV transmission in South America and Africa.
Countries with risk for YFV transmission have been listed (Table 1).
For many of these countries, only a portion of the country is at risk for YFV transmission (Figure 2).
Given that changes in the designation of endemic regions can occur, travelers and health-care providers should obtain updated information from CDC, available at 
YF vaccine may be required for entry into certain countries.
A list of country-specific requirements is available at 
Requirements are mandatory and are intended primarily to prevent importation into and transmission of YFV within a given country.
However, IHRs stipulate that a medical provider may issue a waiver of YF vaccination to a traveler to fulfill these requirements if the provider judges that YF vaccination is medically contraindicated.
Because of the risk for serious adverse events that can occur following YF vaccine administration, health-care providers should vaccinate only persons who are at risk for exposure to YF virus or require proof of vaccination for country entry.
To minimize further the risk for serious adverse events, health-care providers should observe the contraindications carefully and consider the precautions to vaccination before administration of YF vaccine and provide a medical waiver when needed (Table 2).
Requirements for Vaccination Before International Travel Certain countries require evidence of vaccination from all entering travelers, which includes direct travel from the United States (34).
Travelers who arrive in a country with a YF vaccination entry requirement without proof of vaccination may be quarantined for up to 6 days.
Country-entry requirements for proof of YF vaccination under IHRs are different from ACIP or CDC recommendations.
Requirements are mandatory and are intended primarily to prevent importation into and transmission of YFV within a given country.
CDC's recommendations are public health advice provided to travelers on the basis of the best available epidemiologic data to prevent YFV infection among travelers visiting countries with a risk for YFV transmission.
For purposes of international travel, YF vaccines must be administered at an approved YF vaccination center.
In the United States, state and territorial health departments have the authority to designate nonfederal vaccination centers and to issue YF vaccination stamps to those centers.
A list of designated vaccine centers is available from CDC at  or can be obtained from state or local health departments.
As proof of receipt of YF vaccine, all vaccinees should possess a completed International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP), validated with the provider's signature and official YF vaccination center stamp (Figure 3).
An ICVP must be complete in every detail; if it is incomplete or inaccurate, it is not valid.
Failure to secure validations can cause a traveler to be quarantined, denied entry, or possibly revaccinated at the point of entry to a country.
Some countries do not require an ICVP for infants younger than a certain age (e.g.
Information on age requirements for vaccination by individual countries is available at 
The certificate of vaccination is valid beginning 10 days after the date of vaccination and extending for a period of 10 years.
When a booster dose of the vaccine is administered within this 10-year period, the certificate is considered valid from the day of the most recent vaccination.
IHRs stipulate that a medical provider may issue a waiver of YF vaccination to a traveler if the provider judges that YF vaccination is medically contraindicated (see Contraindications and Precautions).
In this case, the physician should fill out and sign the "Medical Contraindications to Vaccination" section of the ICVP (Figure 4), provide a signed and dated letter on letterhead stationary clearly stating the contraindication, and bearing that center's official YF vaccination stamp.
The provider should inform the traveler of any increased risk for YF infection associated with nonvaccination and how to minimize this risk.
Reasons other than medical contraindications are not acceptable for exemption from vaccination.
The traveler also should be advised of the possibility that the medical waiver might not be accepted by the destination country.
Because requirements and recommendations might change, all travelers should seek up-to-date information before travel from health departments, CDC, and WHO.
Travel agencies, international airlines, or shipping lines also might have up-to-date information.
Updated information on requirements and recommendations for vaccination are available at 
Administration of Yellow Fever Vaccine Dosage and Administration For persons of all ages for whom vaccination is indicated, a single subcutaneous injection of 0.5 mL of reconstituted vaccine is used.
According to the package insert, the vaccine needs to be administered within 1 hour of reconstitution (71).
Once reconstituted, a multidose vial should be maintained at 35°F--46°F (2°C--8°C), and the remaining doses should be used or discarded within 1 hour.
Although limited data suggest YF vaccine might retain its potency following the expiration date (126), the package insert states that the vaccine should not be used after its expiration date.
According to ACIP's General Recommendations on Immunization, a dose of an expired vaccine should not be counted as valid, and the dose should be repeated with a nonexpired vaccine following a 28-day interval (127).
For more guidance on the inadvertent administration of an expired vaccine, health-care providers should contact the vaccine manufacturer.
If the vaccine is administered inadvertently via the intramuscular route, the response to vaccine probably will not be affected.
Repeating doses of vaccine administered by the intramuscular route rather than by the subcutaneous route is not necessary (127).
Anaphylaxis has been reported to occur in persons with no history of reactions to the components of the vaccine.
Given this, all persons should be observed for at least 15 minutes following the administration of the vaccine, and epinephrine injection (1:1,000) should be readily available in case of a serious allergic reaction.
Furthermore, because reactions have been delayed up to several hours following YF vaccine, all patients should be advised of signs and symptoms of an allergic reaction (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, dyspnea, bronchospasm, pharyngeal edema, wheezing, and throat tightness).
In addition, vaccinated persons should be advised to seek immediate medical care if any symptoms of an allergic reaction develop following vaccination.
Transfusion-related transmission of yellow fever vaccine virus has been documented among persons receiving blood products that were collected from recently vaccinated persons (75).
Blood donation centers should screen blood donors to determine if they received a yellow fever vaccine within the preceding 2 weeks and defer these donors.
However, practices vary between blood collection centers, and questions about vaccination history might not be asked routinely.
Therefore, health-care providers should advise persons to defer blood donation for 2 weeks after receiving YF vaccine.
Booster Doses IHRs require revaccination at intervals of 10 years to boost antibody titer.
Evidence from multiple studies demonstrates that YF vaccine immunity persists for many decades and might provide life-long protection (79,80,128,129).
To minimize the occurrence of adverse events and optimize the immune response, efforts should be taken to observe a 10-year interval between YF vaccine doses.
Although the level of YFV-specific antibodies formed following revaccination appears to be correlated inversely to the amount of preexisting antibodies (130), no data suggest that earlier revaccination will have a negative impact on seroprotection.
If the date of the most recent vaccination cannot be ascertained, and the patient requires vaccination, a booster dose should be administered.
Simultaneous Administration of Other Vaccines or Drugs Determination of whether to administer YF vaccine and other immunobiologics simultaneously (i.e., administration on the same day but at a different injection site) should be made on the basis of convenience to the traveler in completing the desired vaccinations before travel and on information regarding possible immune interference.
No evidence exists that inactivated vaccines and YF vaccine interfere with the immune response to the vaccine.
Therefore, inactivated vaccines can be administered either simultaneously or at any time before or after YF vaccination (127).
YF vaccine should be administered either simultaneously or 30 days apart from other live viral vaccines because the immune response to one live virus vaccine might be impaired if administered within 30 days of another live-virus vaccine (131,132).
Limited data suggest that the serologic response to YF vaccine is not inhibited by administration of measles vaccine nonsimultaneously within 30 days of YF vaccine administration (133).
However, the serologic response to measles vaccine was not assessed in this study.
Oral Ty21a typhoid vaccine can be administered simultaneously or at any interval before or after YF vaccine attributable to the different routes of administration (34).
No data exist regarding possible interference between YF vaccine and rabies, human papillomavirus, Japanese encephalitis, live attenuated influenza, or varicella virus vaccines (145).
Studies of persons administered YF vaccine and immune globulin simultaneously found no alteration of the immunologic response to YF vaccine when compared with controls (i.e., YF vaccine alone) (146,147).
Although chloroquine inhibits replication of YFV in vitro, it does not affect antibody responses to YF vaccine adversely among persons receiving antimalarial prophylaxis (148).
No data exist for YF vaccine and the potential suppression of the tuberculin skin test (TST) response.
However, because the use of live attenuated measles vaccine theoretically can suppress TST reactivity resulting in a false-negative reaction, ACIP's General Recommendations on Immunization suggest that TST should be administered at the same time as YF vaccine or 4 weeks after receipt of YF vaccine (127).
Alternatively, TST screening can be performed and read before administering YF vaccine.
However, if YF vaccine has been administered recently, TST screening should be delayed for at least 4 weeks after vaccination (127).
Contraindications Allergy to Vaccine Components YF vaccine is contraindicated for persons with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the vaccine components, including eggs, egg products, chicken proteins, or gelatin.
The stopper used in vials of vaccine also contains dry latex rubber, which might cause an allergic reaction (71).
According to the manufacturer, persons who are able to eat eggs or egg products may receive the vaccine.
However, potential hypersensitivity reactions might occur in persons with a history of minor reactions to eggs.
For egg-sensitive persons, a scratch test or intradermal test can be performed before administering the vaccine to check for reactivity.
If a person has a severe egg-sensitivity or has a positive skin test to the vaccine, but the vaccination is recommended because of their travel destination-specific risk, desensitization can be performed under direct supervision of a physician experienced in the management of anaphylaxis.
The desensitization procedure is detailed in the product insert (71).
Given the risk for anaphylaxis, even among persons with no history of reactions to components of the vaccine, all persons should be observed for at least 15 minutes following the administration of the vaccine, and epinephrine (1:1,000) should be readily available in case of a serious allergic reaction.
Vaccinated persons should be advised of symptoms of an allergic reaction and should be advised to seek immediate medical care if any symptoms of an allergic reaction develop following vaccination.
This contraindication was instituted in the late 1960s in response to a high rate of YEL-AND documented in vaccinated young infants (97).
The mechanism of increased neurovirulence in infants is unknown but might be attributable to the immaturity of the blood-brain barrier, higher or more prolonged viremia, or immune system immaturity.
Altered Immune Status Thymus Disorder YF vaccine is contraindicated for persons with a thymus disorder that is associated with abnormal immune cell function (e.g., thymoma or myasthenia gravis) (149).
Four (17%) of the initial 23 YEL-AVD reported cases were noted to occur in persons who had had thymectomies performed for thymomas (117).
In 2003, thymus disorder was added to the YF vaccine package insert as a contraindication.
To date, no evidence has been identified of immune dysfunction or increased risk for YF vaccine-associated serious adverse events in persons who have undergone incidental surgical removal of their thymus or have had indirect radiation therapy in the distant past.
Therefore, YF vaccine can be administered, if indicated based on their destination-specific YF risk, in persons who underwent incidental surgical removal of the thymus or have a remote history of radiation therapy to the thymus.
This recommendation is based on a theoretic increased risk for encephalitis in this population.
One fatal YEL-AND case has been reported in a person with a previously undiagnosed HIV infection and a CD4 count of 108 cells/mm3 who was vaccinated with YF vaccine (98).
No large prospective, randomized trials have been performed to address the safety and efficacy of YF vaccine among this group adequately.
Several retrospective and prospective studies that included a total of approximately 450 HIV-infected persons who received YF vaccine reported no additional serious adverse events.
(See Precautions for other HIV-infected persons not meeting these criteria.) Immunodeficiencies Other than Thymus Disorder or HIV Infection YF vaccine is contraindicated for persons with primary immunodeficiencies, malignant neoplasms, and transplantation (127).
Although no data exist on the use of YF vaccine in these persons, they are presumed to have an increased risk for YF vaccine-associated serious adverse events.
More specific information on primary immunodeficiencies for which the use of live viral vaccines, such as YF vaccine, is contraindicated will be published (127).
Live viral vaccines should be deferred in persons with a history of malignant neoplasm or transplantation until immune function has improved substantially.
This is best determined by a physician who is familiar with the patient and the patient's underlying medical condition and treatments in consultation with a YF vaccination center.
If a person with an immunodeficiency cannot avoid travel to an area in which YF is endemic, a medical waiver should be provided, and counseling on protective measures against mosquito bites should be emphasized.
Immunosuppressive and Immunomodulatory Therapies YF vaccine is contraindicated for person whose immunologic response is either suppressed or modulated by current or recent radiation therapies or drugs.
Drugs with known immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory properties include high-dose systemic corticosteroids, alkylating drugs, antimetabolites, TNF-α inhibitors (e.g., etanercept), IL-1 blocking agent (e.g., anakinra), and other monoclonal antibodies targeting immune cells (e.g., rituximab, alemtuzumab).
No specific data exist on the use of YF vaccine in persons receiving these therapies.
However, these persons are presumed to be at an increased risk for YF vaccine-associated serious adverse events, and the use of live attenuated vaccines in these persons is contraindicated according to the package insert for most of these therapies (127).
Administration of live viral vaccines should be deferred in persons who have discontinued these therapies until immune function has improved.
This is best determined by a physician who is familiar with the patient's underlying medical conditions and by the patient's pharmacist, who can assist in determining the specific half-lives of the immunosuppressive drugs and the potential duration of immune suppression.
If someone receiving immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies cannot avoid travel to an area in which YF is endemic , a medical waiver should be provided, and counseling on protective measures against mosquito bites should be emphasized.
Precautions Infants Aged 6--8 Months Age 6--8 months is a precaution for YF vaccine administration.
Two cases of YEL-AND have been reported among infants aged 6--8 months (96).
By age 9 months, the risk for YEL-AND is believed to be substantially lower.
In general, whenever possible, travel of children aged 6--8 months to countries in which YF is endemic should be postponed or avoided.
If travel is unavoidable, the decision of whether to vaccinate these infants needs to balance the risks for YFV exposure with the risk for adverse events following vaccination.
Adults Aged ≥60 Years Age ≥60 years is a precaution for YF vaccine administration, particularly if the first dose of the YF vaccine is to be administered.
A recent analysis of adverse events reported to VAERS during 2000--2006 indicates that persons aged ≥60 years are at increased risk for any serious adverse events after vaccination, compared with younger persons (89).
The rate of serious adverse events in persons aged ≥60 years was 8.3 events per 100,000 doses distributed compared with 4.7 events per 100,000 doses distributed for all YF vaccine recipients.
This reinforces findings from VAERS data from 1990--1998 that reported the rate of serious adverse events was 7.5 times higher in persons aged ≥60 years than in the reference group (persons aged 19--29 years) (107).
The risk for YEL-AND and YEL-AVD also are increased in this age group, at 1.8 and 1.4 reported cases per 100,000 doses distributed, respectively, compared with 0.8 and 0.4 reported cases per 100,000 doses distributed for all YF vaccine recipients.
Given that YEL-AND and YEL-AVD are seen almost exclusively in primary vaccine recipients, caution should be exercised with older travelers who might be receiving YF vaccine for the first time.
If travel is unavoidable, the decision to vaccinate travelers aged ≥60 years needs to weigh the risks and benefits of the vaccination in the context of their destination-specific risk for exposure to YFV.
Large prospective randomized trials have not been performed to address the safety and efficacy of YF vaccine adequately among this group.
Several retrospective and prospective studies including approximately 450 persons infected with HIV have reported no serious adverse events among patients considered moderately immunosuppressed based on the their CD4 counts (84--87,152--155).
HIV infection has been associated with a reduced immunologic response to a number of inactivated and live-attenuated vaccines, including YF vaccine (84).
Among HIV-infected infants in developing nations, only three (17%) of 18 developed YFV-specific neutralizing antibodies within 10 months of vaccination compared with 42 (74%) of 57 HIV-uninfected controls matched for age and nutritional status (87).
The mechanisms for the diminished immune response in HIV-infected persons are uncertain but appear to be correlated with HIV RNA levels and CD4 counts.
Because vaccination of asymptomatic HIV-infected persons might be less effective than that for persons not infected with HIV, measurement of their neutralizing antibody response to vaccination should be considered before travel.
Health-care providers should contact the appropriate state health department or CDC (at telephone 1-970 221-6400) to discuss serologic testing further.
For HIV-infected persons who experience immune reconstitution in response to antiretroviral therapy, their current CD4 count and symptoms of HIV infection (if stable over 3 month time period) rather than a CD4 count nadir and a history of prior opportunistic infections/symptomatic HIV should be used to categorize their HIV status (156).
Of note, one YEL-AVD case was reported in a person determined to have a genetic polymorphisms in chemokine receptor CCR5 (118).
Consequently, concern has been raised that despite having adequate immune function, persons with HIV infection who are receiving an antiretroviral regimen containing a CCR5-receptor antagonist could be at increased risk for adverse events after YF vaccination (157).
Further research is needed to address this concern.
If an asymptomatic HIV-infected person with moderate immune suppression is traveling to an area in which YF is endemic, vaccination can be considered.
Vaccinated persons should be monitored closely after vaccination for evidence of adverse events.
If an adverse event occurs, a VAERS report should be filed, and the state health department or CDC should be notified to obtain technical support and assistance with diagnostic testing.
If international travel requirements rather than an increased risk for acquiring YFV infection are the only reason to vaccinate HIV-infected persons, the person should be excused from vaccination and issued a medical waiver to fulfill health regulations.
(See Contraindications for other HIV-infected persons not meeting these criteria.) Pregnancy Pregnancy is a precaution for YF vaccine administration, compared with most other live vaccines, which are contraindicated in pregnancy.
If travel is unavoidable, and the risks for YFV exposure are felt to outweigh the vaccination risks, a pregnant woman should be vaccinated.
If the risks for vaccination are felt to outweigh the risks for YFV exposure, pregnant women should be issued a medical waiver to fulfill health regulations.
Although no specific data are available, a woman should wait 4 weeks after receiving YF vaccine before conceiving.
(See Vaccination of Women During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding.) Breastfeeding Breastfeeding is a precaution for YF vaccine administration.
Two serious adverse events have been reported in exclusively breastfed infants whose mothers were vaccinated with YF vaccine (123; PHAC, unpublished data, 2008).
Further research is needed to document the risk for potential vaccine exposure through breastfeeding.
Until more information is available, YF vaccine should be avoided in breastfeeding women.
However, when travel of nursing mothers to a YF endemic area cannot be avoided or postponed, these women should be vaccinated.
(See Vaccination of Women During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding.) Special Populations Age YF vaccine is approved for use in persons aged ≥9 months.
(See Contraindications for more information.) Age 6--8 months and adults aged ≥60 years are precautions for YF vaccine administration.
(See Precautions.) Pregnancy Limited data are available regarding the safety and immunogenicity of YF vaccine in pregnancy.
Pregnancy is a precaution for YF vaccine administration.
(See Vaccination of Women During Pregnancy and Breastfeeding and Precautions.) Breastfeeding Women Although no data are available on the immune response in breastfeeding mothers, no alteration to the immune response in these women are suspected.
Limited data are available regarding the safety of YF vaccine in breastfed infants.
Breastfeeding is a precaution for YF vaccine administration.
(See Contraindications and Precautions.) Complete details are not available regarding what medications the nine patients with reported YEL-AVD who had a history of autoimmune disease or diseases with potential autoimmune etiology were taking; these might have included immunosuppressive medications.
Older age and history of thymoma are both risk factors for YEL-AVD.
Nonetheless, the fact that nine (16%) of 57 persons with reported cases of YEL-AVD had a history of autoimmune disease is a concern and suggests that autoimmune disease, either by itself of in conjunction with other risk factors, including immunosuppressive medication, could increase the risk for YEL-AVD.
Definitive data are lacking to guide decision-making about YF vaccination in these patients.
Health-care providers should consider the possibility of diminished immune function resulting from the autoimmune disease state itself and/or the medication used in deciding whether or not to administer YF vaccine to these patients.
Reporting of Vaccine Adverse Events Even if a causal relation to vaccination is not certain, all adverse events following receipt of vaccine that are thought to be clinically significant by health-care providers or vaccine recipients should be reported to VAERS at  or by telephone at 1-800-822-7967.
To promote better timeliness and quality of safety data, secure web-based reporting is available and health-care providers are encouraged to report electronically at 
Surveillance to monitor, characterize, and quantify YF vaccine-specific adverse outcomes are ongoing.
Because current reporting mechanisms are strictly passive, detection of of YEL-AVD and YEL-AND in recently vaccinated persons who experience new symptoms largely depends on health-care providers being familiar with these conditions and with reporting requirements.
An education program regarding the vaccine and possible serious adverse events is being developed and will be made available to all health-care providers by fall 2010 through CDC's Travelers' Health website.
State health departments are encouraged to incorporate requirements for completion of these programs into their certification and recertification processes for issuance of YF vaccination stamps to health-care providers.
Future Research Research focusing on suspected risk factors for serious adverse events or suboptimal response to YF vaccine for which few or no data exist should be designed and implemented.
This should include HIV, immunosuppressive diseases, autoimmune diseases, and use of immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory drugs.
Ethical considerations might limit these to observational studies.
If possible, studies geared to collecting population-based data would be the most useful, though also the most difficult to implement.
Further research also is needed to determine if YF vaccine virus is present in breast milk and the exact route of transmission involved (e.g., ingested milk or blood).
Studies addressing the duration of immune response to the vaccine, in particular the duration of IgM antibodies following vaccination and the duration of protective antibody levels, are warranted.
These studies would help resolve issues related to possible YF disease in vaccinated travelers as well as provide updated evidence on the dosing interval needed for booster doses of the vaccine.
Finally, studies examining the immune response to an inactivated yellow fever vaccine are underway.
If successful, the inactivated vaccine potentially could be administered to persons with contraindications to the use of a live viral vaccine.
Additional Information Information about YF for travelers and health-care providers has been published previously (34).
Additional information about YF is available at 
Additional licensure information for the YF vaccine that is approved in the United States is available at 
Acknowledgments This report is based in part on contributions by Nicole Lindsey, MPH, Susan Hills, MBBS, Division of Vector-Borne Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.
References Monath T, Cetron MS, Teuwen DE.
Yellow fever vaccine.
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, Offit PA, eds.
Philadelphia, PA: Saunders Elsevier; 2008:959--1055.
Reed W, Carroll JAS, Agramonte A.
The etiology of yellow fever: an additional note.
JAMA 1901;36:431--40.
Berry GP, Kitchen SF.
Yellow fever accidentally contracted in the laboratory: a study of seven cases.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1931;11:365--434.
Beeuwkes H.
Clinical manifestations of yellow fever in the west African native as observed during four extensive epidemics of the disease in the Gold Coast and Nigeria.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1936;30:61--86.
Barrett AD, Monath TP.
Epidemiology and ecology of yellow fever virus.
Adv Virus Res 2003;61:291--315.
World Health Organization, Division of Epidemiological Surveillance and Health Situation Trend Assessment.
Global health situation and projections---estimates.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1992.
Robertson SE, Hull BP, Tomori O, Bele O, LeDuc JW, Esteves K.
Yellow fever: a decade of reemergence.
JAMA 1996;276:1157--62.
Chippaux A, Deubel V, Moreau JP, Reynes JM.
Bull Soc Pathol Exot 1993;86:460--4.
Kuno G, Chang GJ, Tsuchiya KR, Karabatsos N, Cropp CB.
Phylogeny of the genus Flavivirus.
J Virol 1998;72:73--83.
Simpson DI, Haddow AJ, Williams MC, Woodall JP.
Yellow fever in central Uganda, 1964.
Investigations on blood-sucking diptera and monkeys.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1965;59:449--58.
Germain M, Cornet M, Mouchet J, et al.
Med Trop (Mars) 1981;41:31--43.
Transmission of yellow fever by mosquitoes other than Aedes aegypti.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1928;8:261--82.
Shannon RC, Whitman L, Franca M.
Yellow fever virus in jungle mosquitoes.
Science 1938;88:110--1.
Vasconcelos PF, Rodrigues SG, Degallier N, et al.
An epidemic of sylvatic yellow fever in the southeast region of Maranhao State, Brazil, 1993--1994: epidemiologic and entomologic findings.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1997;57:132--7.
The newer epidemiology of yellow fever.
Am J Public Health 1937;27:1--14.
Digoutte JP, Cornet M, Deuble V, Downs WG.
Yellow fever.
In: Porterfield JS, ed.
Exotic viral infections: Kass handbook of infectious diseases.
London, UK: Chapman & Hall Medical; 1995: 67--102.
Yellow fever: an update.
Lancet Infect Dis 2001;1:11--20.
The transmission of yellow fever.
Lancet 1930;216:835--42.
Yellow fever: the recurring plague.
Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci 2004;41:391--427.
Van der Stuyft P, Gianella A, Pirard M, et al.
Urbanisation of yellow fever in Santa Cruz, Bolivia.
Lancet 1999;353:1558--62.
Pan American Health Organization.
Outbreak of yellow fever in Paraguay.
Epidemiol Bull 2008;27.
Ellis BR, Barrett AD.
The enigma of yellow fever in East Africa.
Rev Med Virol 2008;18:331--46.
Mutebi JP, Barrett AD.
The epidemiology of yellow fever in Africa.
Microbes Infect 2002;4:1459--68.
Monath TP, Craven RB, Adjukiewicz A, et al.
Yellow fever in the Gambia, 1978--1979: epidemiologic aspects with observations on the occurrence of Orungo virus infections.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1980;29:912--28.
Nasidi A, Monath TP, DeCock K, et al.
Urban yellow fever epidemic in western Nigeria, 1987.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1989;83:401--6.
World Health Organization.
Outbreak news: yellow fever, Republic of the Congo.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2009;84:161.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever in the Central African Republic, 2009.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Pan American Health Organization.
Yellow fever in the Americas.
Bull Pan Am Health Organ 1985;19:209--12.
Vasconcelos PF.
Rev Soc Bras Med Trop 2003;36:275--93.
Outbreak notice: yellow fever in Brazil 2009.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Pan American Health Organization.
Update: situation of yellow fever in the Americas 2009.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Brazil Ministry of Health.
Available at  .
Accessed July 1, 2010.
The global emergence/resurgence of arboviral diseases as public health problems.
Arch Med Res 2002;33:330--42.
Gershman M, Schroeder B, Staples JE.
Yellow fever.
In: Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE, Magill AJ, Shlim DR, Whatley AD, eds.
CDC health information for international travel 2010.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2009.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever in Africa and South America, 2007.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2009;84:97--104.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever in Africa and South America, 2006.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2008;83:60--76.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever situation in Africa and South America, 2005.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2006;81:317--24.
Monath TP, Wilson DC, Lee VH, Stroh G, Kuteyi K, Smith EA.
The 1970 yellow fever epidemic in Okwoga District, Benue Plateau State, Nigeria.
Epidemiological observations.
Bull World Health Organ 1973;49:113--21.
Vasconcelos PF, Costa ZG, Travassos Da Rosa ES, et al.
Epidemic of jungle yellow fever in Brazil, 2000: implications of climatic alterations in disease spread.
J Med Virol 2001;65:598--604.
Monath TP, Cetron MS.
Prevention of yellow fever in persons traveling to the tropics.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:1369--78.
Beeuwkes H, Kerr JA, Wethersbee AA.
Observations on the bionomics and comparative prevalence of the vectors of yellow fever and other domestic mosquitoes of West Africa, and the epidemiological significance of seasonal variations.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1933;26:425--47.
Pinheiro FP, Travassos da Rosa AP, Moraes MA, Almeida Neto JC, Camargo S, Filgueiras JP.
An epidemic of yellow fever in central Brazil, 1972--1973.
Epidemiological studies.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1978;27:125--32.
Tuboi SH, Costa ZG, da Costa Vasconcelos PF, Hatch D.
Clinical and epidemiological characteristics of yellow fever in Brazil: analysis of reported cases 1998--2002.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 2007;101:169--75.
Yellow fever: a medically neglected disease.
Rev Infect Dis 1987;9:165--75.
Yellow fever.
In: Monath TP, ed.
The arboviruses: epidemiology and ecology.
Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 1989.
Santos F, Pereira Lima C, Paiva M, Caosta e Silva M, Nery de Castro C.
Disseminated intravascular coagulation in acute yellow fever: measurement of coagulation factors.
Brasilia Med 1973;9:9--15.
Oudart JL, Rey M.
Bull World Health Organ 1970;42:95--102.
Vasconcelos PF, Luna EJ, Galler R, et al.
Serious adverse events associated with yellow fever 17DD vaccine in Brazil: a report of two cases.
Lancet 2001;358:91--7.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Arboviruses.
In: Pickering LK, Baker CJ, Kimberlin DW, Long SS, eds.
Red book: 2009 report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2009.
Saluzzo JF, Monath TP, Cornet M, Deubel V, Digoutte JP.
Ann Inst Pasteur (Paris) 1985;136:115--29.
Paddock CD, Nicholson WL, Bhatnagar J, et al.
Fatal hemorrhagic fever caused by West Nile virus in the United States.
Clin Infect Dis 2006;42:1527--35.
Treatment of yellow fever.
Antiviral Res 2008;78:116--24.
Epidemic of yellow fever in Nuba Mountains, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.
Ann Trop Med 1941;35:67--113.
McFarland JM, Baddour LM, Nelson JE, et al.
Imported yellow fever in a United States citizen.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:1143--7.
Digoutte JP, Plassart H, Salaun JJ, Heme G, Ferrara L, Germain M.
Bull World Health Organ 1981;59:759--66.
Nolla-Salas J, Saballs-Radresa J, Bada JL.
Imported yellow fever in vaccinated tourist.
Lancet 1989;334:1275.
Rodhain F, Hannoun C, Jousset FX, Ravisse P.
Bull Soc Pathol Exot Filiales 1979;72:411--5.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Venezuela, 1999.
MMWR 1999;49:303--5.
Colebunders R, Mariage JL, Coche JC, et al.
A Belgian traveler who acquired yellow fever in the Gambia.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;35:e113--6.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Amazonas, Brazil, 2002.
MMWR 2002;51:324--5.
Teichmann D, Grobusch MP, Wesselmann H, et al.
A haemorrhagic fever from the Cote d'Ivoire.
Lancet 1999;354:1608.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever 1996--1997.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 1998;73:354--9.
World Health Organization.
Imported case of yellow fever in the Netherlands, 2000.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Lloyd W, Theiler M, Ricci NI.
Modification of the virulence of yellow fever virus by cultivation in tissues in vitro.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1936;29:481--529.
Pugachev KV, Ocran SW, Guirakhoo F, Furby D, Monath TP.
Heterogeneous nature of the genome of the ARILVAX yellow fever 17D vaccine revealed by consensus sequencing.
Vaccine 2002;20:996--9.
Monath TP, Nichols R, Archambault WT, et al.
Comparative safety and immunogenicity of two yellow fever 17D vaccines (ARILVAX and YF-VAX) in a phase III multicenter, double-blind clinical trial.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2002;66:533--41.
Ripoll C, Ponce A, Wilson MM, et al.
Evaluation of two yellow fever vaccines for routine immunization programs in Argentina.
Hum Vaccin 2008;4:121--6.
Pfister M, Kursteiner O, Hilfiker H, et al.
Immunogenicity and safety of BERNA-YF compared with two other 17D yellow fever vaccines in a phase 3 clinical trial.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2005;72:339--46.
Lang J, Zuckerman J, Clarke P, Barrett P, Kirkpatrick C, Blondeau C.
Comparison of the immunogenicity and safety of two 17D yellow fever vaccines.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1999;60:1045--50.
Camacho LA, Freire MS, Leal ML, et al.
Immunogenicity of WHO-17D and Brazilian 17DD yellow fever vaccines: a randomized trial.
Rev Saude Publica 2004;38:671--8.
sanofi pasteur.
Yellow fever vaccine.
Swiftwater, PA: sanofi pasteur; 2005.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Mason RA, Tauraso NM, Spertzel RO, Ginn RK.
Yellow fever vaccine: direct challenge of monkeys given graded doses of 17D vaccine.
Appl Microbiol 1973;25:539--44.
Reinhardt B, Jaspert R, Niedrig M, Kostner C, L'Age-Stehr J.
Development of viremia and humoral and cellular parameters of immune activation after vaccination with yellow fever virus strain 17D: a model of human flavivirus infection.
J Med Virol 1998;56:159--67.
Monath TP, McCarthy K, Bedford P, et al.
Clinical proof of principle for ChimeriVax: recombinant live, attenuated vaccines against flavivirus infections.
Vaccine 2002;20:1004--18.
Transfusion-related transmission of yellow fever vaccine virus---California, 2009.
MMWR 2010; 59:34--7.
Neutralizing antibody responses in the major immunoglobulin classes to yellow fever 17D vaccination of humans.
Am J Epidemiol 1971;93:122--9.
Courtois G.
Time of appearance and duration of immunity conferred by 17D vaccine.
In: Yellow fever vaccine.
WHO Series.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1956.
World Health Organization.
International Health Regulations (2005).
Geneva, Switzerland; 2008.
Available at  .
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Rosenzweig EC, Babione RW, Wisseman CL, Jr.
Immunological studies with group B arthropod-borne viruses.
Persistence of yellow fever antibodies following vaccination with 17D strain yellow fever vaccine.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1963;12:230--5.
Poland JD, Calisher CH, Monath TP, Downs WG, Murphy K.
Persistence of neutralizing antibody 30--35 years after immunization with 17D yellow fever vaccine.
Bull World Health Organ 1981;59:895--900.
Bonnevie-Nielsen V, Heron I, Monath TP, Calisher CH.
Lymphocytic 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase activity increases prior to the appearance of neutralizing antibodies and immunoglobulin M and immunoglobulin G antibodies after primary and secondary immunization with yellow fever vaccine.
Clin Diagn Lab Immunol 1995;2:302--6.
Nasidi A, Monath TP, Vandenberg J, et al.
Yellow fever vaccination and pregnancy: a four-year prospective study.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1993;87:337--9.
Suzano CE, Amaral E, Sato HK, Papaiordanou PM.
The effects of yellow fever immunization (17DD) inadvertently used in early pregnancy during a mass campaign in Brazil.
Vaccine 2006;24:1421--6.
Goujon C, Tohr M, Feuillie V, Coulaud P, Dupont B, Sansonetti P.
Good tolerance and efficacy of yellow fever vaccine among carriers of human immunodeficiency virus.
Fourth International Conference on Travel Medicine; April 23--27, 1995; Acapulco, Mexico.
Receveur MC, Thiebaut R, Vedy S, Malvy D, Mercie P, Bras ML.
Yellow fever vaccination of human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients: report of 2 cases.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;31:E7--8.
Veit O, Niedrig M, Chapuis-Taillard C, et al.
Immunogenicity and safety of yellow fever vaccination for 102 HIV-infected patients.
Clin Infect Dis 2009;48:659--66.
Sibailly TS, Wiktor SZ, Tsai TF, et al.
Poor antibody response to yellow fever vaccination in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1997;16:1177--9.
Camacho LA, de Aguiar SG, Freire MS, et al.
Reactogenicity of yellow fever vaccines in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
Rev Saude Publica 2005;39:413--20.
Lindsey NP, Schroeder BA, Miller ER, et al.
Adverse event reports following yellow fever vaccination.
Vaccine 2008;26:6077--82.
Kelso JM, Mootrey GT, Tsai TF.
Anaphylaxis from yellow fever vaccine.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1999;103:698--701.
McMahon AW, Eidex RB, Marfin AA, et al.
Neurologic disease associated with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccination: a report of 15 cases.
Vaccine 2007;25:1727--34.
Kitchener S.
Viscerotropic and neurotropic disease following vaccination with the 17D yellow fever vaccine, ARILVAX.
Vaccine 2004;22:2103--5.
Fox JP, Penna HA.
Behavior of 17D yellow fever virus in Rhesus monkeys: relation to substrain, dose, and neural, or extraneural innoculaton.
Am J Hyg 1943;38:152--72.
Nickells J, Cannella M, Droll DA, Liang Y, Wold WS, Chambers TJ.
Neuroadapted yellow fever virus strain 17D: a charged locus in domain III of the E protein governs heparin binding activity and neuroinvasiveness in the SCID mouse model.
J Virol 2008;82:12510--9.
World Health Organization Expert Committee on Biological Standardization.
Forty-sixth report.
WHO technical report series, 1998;872:1--90.
Reactions following vaccination against yellow fever.
In: Yellow fever vaccine.
WHO series.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1956.
Public Health Service.
Yellow fever vaccine: recommendation of the U.S.
Public Health Service Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
Ann Intern Med 1969;71:365--7.
Kengsakul K, Sathirapongsasuti K, Punyagupta S.
Fatal myeloencephalitis following yellow fever vaccination in a case with HIV infection.
J Med Assoc Thai 2002;85:131--4.
Adverse events associated with 17D-derived yellow fever vaccination---United States, 2001--2002.
MMWR 2002;51:989--93.
Chaves M, Riccio P, Patrucco L, Rojas J, Cristiano E.
Longitudinal myelitis associated with yellow fever vaccination.
J Neurovirol 2009;3:1--3.
Miravalle A, Biller J, Silva E, Conneely M, O'Keefe P.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis: yellow fever vaccination.
Arq Neuro Psiquiatr 2009;67:710--1.
Vucic S, Kiernan MC, Cornblath DR.
Guillain-Barré syndrome: an update.
J Clin Neurosci 2009;16 :733--41.
Noorbakhsh F, Johnson RT, Emery D, Power C.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis: clinical and pathogenesis features.
Neurol Clin 2008;26:759--80.
Fatal viral encephalitis following 17D yellow fever vaccine inoculation.
Report of a case in a 3-year-old child.
JAMA 1966;198:671--2.
Jennings AD, Gibson CA, Miller BR, et al.
Analysis of a yellow fever virus isolated from a fatal case of vaccine-associated human encephalitis.
J Infect Dis 1994;169:512--8.
Louis JJ, Chopard P, Larbre F.
Pediatrie 1981;36:547--50.
Khromava AY, Eidex RB, Weld LH, et al.
Yellow fever vaccine: an updated assessment of advanced age as a risk factor for serious adverse events.
Vaccine 2005;23:3256--63.
Martin M, Tsai TF, Cropp B, et al.
Fever and multisystem organ failure associated with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccination: a report of four cases.
Lancet 2001;358:98--104.
Chan RC, Penney DJ, Little D, Carter IW, Roberts JA, Rawlinson WD.
Hepatitis and death following vaccination with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccine.
Lancet 2001;358:121--2.
Fever, jaundice, and multiple organ system failure associated with 17D-derived yellow fever vaccination, 1996--2001.
MMWR 2001;50:643--5.
Adhiyaman V, Oke A, Cefai C.
Effects of yellow fever vaccination.
Lancet 2001;358:1907--8.
Troillet N, Laurencet F.
Effects of yellow fever vaccination.
Lancet 2001;358:1908--9.
Werfel U, Popp W.
Effects of yellow fever vaccination.
Lancet 2001;358:1909.
Belsher JL, Gay P, Brinton M, et al.
Fatal multiorgan failure due to yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease.
Vaccine 2007;25:8480--5.
Struchiner CJ, Luz PM, Dourado I, et al.
Risk of fatal adverse events associated with 17DD yellow fever vaccine.
Epidemiol Infect 2004;132:939--46.
Whittembury A, Ramirez G, Hernandez H, et al.
Viscerotropic disease following yellow fever vaccination in Peru.
Vaccine 2009;27:5974--81.
History of thymoma and yellow fever vaccination.
Lancet 2004;364:936.
Pulendran B, Miller J, Querec TD, et al.
Case of yellow fever vaccine--associated viscerotropic disease with prolonged viremia, robust adaptive immune responses, and polymorphisms in CCR5 and RANTES genes.
J Infect Dis 2008;198:500--7.
Acute viscerotropic disease following vaccination against yellow fever.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 2007;101:967--71.
Tsai TF, Paul R, Lynberg MC, Letson GW.
Congenital yellow fever virus infection after immunization in pregnancy.
J Infect Dis 1993;168:1520--3.
Cavalcanti DP, Salomao MA, Lopez-Camelo J, Pessoto MA.
Early exposure to yellow fever vaccine during pregnancy.
Trop Med Int Health 2007;12:833--7.
Nishioka SA, Nunes-Araujo FR, Pires WP, Silva FA, Costa HL.
Yellow fever vaccination during pregnancy and spontaneous abortion: a case-control study.
Trop Med Int Health 1998;3:29--33.
Transmission of yellow fever vaccine virus through breast-feeding---Brazil, 2009.
MMWR 2010;59:130--2.
Theiler RN, Rasmussen SA, Treadwell TA, Jamieson DJ.
Emerging and zoonotic infections in women.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 2008;22:755--72.
Possible West Nile virus transmission to an infant through breast-feeding---Michigan, 2002.
MMWR 2002;51:877--8.
Allen KW, Nguyen-Van-Tam JS, Howells J.
Administration of time-expired yellow fever vaccine: public health response and results of a serological investigation.
Commun Dis Pub Health 1999;2:141--2.
General recommendations on immunization: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
Groot H, Riberiro RB.
Neutralizing and haemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies to yellow fever 17 years after vaccination with 17D vaccine.
Bull World Health Organ 1962;27:699--707.
Niedrig M, Lademann M, Emmerich P, Lafrenz M.
Assessment of IgG antibodies against yellow fever virus after vaccination with 17D by different assays: neutralization test, haemagglutination inhibition test, immunofluorescence assay and ELISA.
Trop Med Int Health 1999;4:867--71.
Hepburn MJ, Kortepeter MG, Pittman PR, et al.
Neutralizing antibody response to booster vaccination with the 17D yellow fever vaccine.
Vaccine 2006;24:2843--9.
Petralli JK, Merigan TC, Wilbur JR.
Circulating interferon after measles vaccination.
N Engl J Med 1965;273:198--201.
Petralli JK, Merigan TC, Wilbur JR.
Action of endogenous interferon against vaccinia infection in children.
Lancet 1965;2:401--5.
Stefano I, Sato HK, Pannuti CS, et al.
Recent immunization against measles does not interfere with the sero-response to yellow fever vaccine.
Vaccine 1999;17:1042--6.
Gateff C, Relyveld EH, Le Gonidec G, et al.
Ann Microbiol (Paris) 1973;124:387--409.
Wolga J, Rodhain F, Hannoun C, et al.
J Biol Stand 1986;14:289--95.
Ruben FL, Smith EA, Foster SO, et al.
Simultaneous administration of smallpox, measles, yellow fever, and diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus antigens to Nigerian children.
Bull World Health Organ 1973;48:175--81.
Dumas R, Forrat R, Lang J, Farinelli T, Loutan L.
Safety and immunogenicity of a new inactivated hepatitis A vaccine in concurrent administration with a typhoid fever vaccine or a typhoid fever + yellow fever vaccine.
Adv Ther 1997;14:160--7.
Jong EC, Kaplan KM, Eves KA, Taddeo CA, Lakkis HD, Kuter BJ.
An open randomized study of inactivated hepatitis A vaccine administered concomitantly with typhoid fever and yellow fever vaccines.
J Travel Med 2002;9:66--70.
Yvonnet B, Coursaget P, Deubel V, Diop-Mar I, Digoutte JP, Chiron JP.
Simultaneous administration of hepatitis B and yellow fever vaccines.
J Med Virol 1986;19:307--11.
Goullin B, Masseron T, Teyssou R, et al.
Med Arm 1993;21:115--7.
Dukes C, Froeschle J, George J, et al.
Presented at the 36th International Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy; September 15--18, 1996; New Orleans, Louisiana.
Tauraso NM, Myers MG, Nau EV, O'Brien TC, Spindel SS, Trimmer RW.
Effect of interval between inoculation of live smallpox and yellow-fever vaccines on antigenicity in man.
J Infect Dis 1972;126:362--71.
Kollaritsch H, Que JU, Kunz C, Wiedermann G, Herzog C, Cryz SJ, Jr.
Safety and immunogenicity of live oral cholera and typhoid vaccines administered alone or in combination with antimalarial drugs, oral polio vaccine, or yellow fever vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1997;175:871--5.
Tsai TF, Kollaritsch H, Que JU, et al.
Compatible concurrent administration of yellow fever 17D vaccine with oral, live, attenuated cholera CVD103-HgR and typhoid ty21a vaccines.
J Infect Dis 1999;179:522--4.
Fletcher MA, Fabre P, Debois H, Saliou P.
Vaccines administered simultaneously: directions for new combination vaccines based on an historical review of the literature.
Int J Infect Dis 2004;8:328--38.
Kaplan JE, Nelson DB, Schonberger LB, et al.
The effect of immune globulin on the response to trivalent oral poliovirus and yellow fever vaccinations.
Bull World Health Organ 1984;62:585--90.
Edupuganti S, Eidex R, Keyserling H, et al.
A randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of the comparative viremia, immunogenicity and safety of live, attenuated 17D yellow fever vaccine given in combination with human immune globulin or placebo.
Presented at the 12th Annual Conference on Vaccine Research; April 27--29, 2009; Baltimore; Maryland.
Tsai TF, Bolin RA, Lazuick JS, Miller KD.
Chloroquine does not adversely affect the antibody response to yellow fever vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1986;154:726--7.
Kelleher P, Misbah SA.
What is Good's syndrome?
Immunological abnormalities in patients with thymoma.
J Clin Pathol 2003;56:12--6.
Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents; Dept Health Human Services; 2008.
Available at 
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Working Group on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection, 2009.
Available at  .
Accessed July 1, 2010.
Tattevin P, Depatureaux AG, Chapplain JM, et al.
Yellow fever vaccine is safe and effective in HIV-infected patients.
AIDS 2004;18:825--7.
Ho YL, Enohata T, Lopes MH, De Sousa Dos Santos S.
Vaccination in Brazilian HIV-infected adults: a cross-sectional study.
AIDS Patient Care STDS 2008;22:65--70.
Wilson ME, von Reyn CF, Fineberg HV.
Infections in HIV-infected travelers: risks and prevention.
Ann Intern Med 1991;114:582--92.
Pistone T, Verdiere CH, Receveur MC, Ezzedine K, Lafon ME, Malvy D.
BEH Thematique 2007;25--26:238--40.
Jong EC, Freedman DO.
Advising travelers with specific needs.
In: Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE, Magill AJ, Shlim DR, Whatley AD, eds.
CDC health information for international travel 2010.
GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2009.
Conesa-Botella A, Colebunders R.
Response to "Case of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease with prolonged viremia, robust adaptive immune responses, and polymorphisms in CCR5 and RANTES genes." J Infect Dis 2009;199:601.
Transmission cycles for yellow fever virus * The jungle (sylatic) transmission cycle involves transmission of the virus between nonhuman primates and mosquito species found in the forest canopy.
The virus is transmitted via mosquitoes from nonhuman primates to human when the humans encroach into the jungle during occupational or recreational activities.
† The urban transmission cycle involves transmission of the virus between human and urban mosquitoes, primarily Ae.
Viremic humans traveling from one region to another can feed into and serve as a source of infection for mosquitoes in other transmission cycles (dotted line).
§ In Africa, an intermediate (savannah) cycle involves transmission of YFV from tree hole-breeding Aedes spp.
to humans living or working in jungle border areas.
In this cycle, the virus can be transmitted from nonhuman primate to humans or from human to human via these mosquitoes.
Alternate Text: This figure shows the three yellow fever transmission cycles: jungle (sylvatic), intermediate (savannah), and urban.
The jungle (sylatic) transmission cycle involves transmission of the virus between nonhuman primates and mosquito species found in the forest canopy.
The virus is transmitted via mosquitoes from nonhuman primates to human when the humans encroach into the jungle during occupational or recreational activities.
The urban transmission cycle involves transmission of the virus between human and urban mosquitoes, primarily Aedes aegypti.
Viremic humans traveling from one region to another can feed into and serve as a source of infection for mosquitoes in other transmission cycles.
In Africa, an intermediate (savannah) cycle involves transmission of YFV from tree-hole-breeding Aedes spp.
to humans living or working in jungle border areas.
In this cycle, the virus can be transmitted from nonhuman primate to humans or from human to human via these mosquitoes.
Areas* at risk for yellow fever transmission --- Africa and South America, 2009 Source: Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE, Magill AJ, Shlim DR, Whatley AD, eds.
CDC health information for international travel 2010.
GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2009.
* As defined by the World Health Organization, countries/areas where yellow fever has been reported currently or in the past, plus areas where vectors and animal reservoirs currently exist.
Alternate Text: The figure shows the areas of Africa and South America in which the World Health Organization has indicated that yellow fever has been reported currently or in the past and areas where vectors and animal reservoirs currently exist.
Yellow fever vaccine.
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, Offit PA, eds.
Philadelphia, PA: Saunders Elsevier; 2008:959--1055).
These case definitions 1) define cases of neurologic disease, 2) define cases with autoimmune involvement in the central nervous system or peripheral nervous system, and 3) describe causal linkage to yellow fever vaccine.
Another laboratory-confirmed diagnosis that explains the clinical picture fully might be sufficient to exclude yellow fever vaccine-associated disease.
Given the challenges in procuring sufficient evidence to make a definitive diagnosis, it might be necessary to combine suspect, probable, and definite cases for risk factor analysis and case counting.
† Does not require presence of altered mental status or seizures.
§ Confirmed as 17D virus by monoclonal antibody analysis or nucleotide sequencing when a possibility of wild-type YF infection exists, inclusive of all 17D-derived vaccines.
Yellow fever vaccine.
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, Offit PA, eds.
Philadelphia, PA: Saunders Elsevier; 2008:959--1055.) These case definitions define cases of viscerotropic disease and levels of certainty that might be causally linked to yellow fever vaccine.
Absence of inclusion criteria does not exclude diagnosis of vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD); however, another laboratory-confirmed diagnosis that explains the clinical picture fully might be sufficient to exclude YEL-AVD.
Given the challenges in procuring sufficient evidence to make a definitive diagnosis of YEL-AVD, it may be necessary to combine suspect, probable, and definite cases for risk factor analysis and case counting.
† Confirmed as 17D virus by monoclonal antibody analysis or nucleotide sequencing when a possibility of wild-type YF infection exists, inclusive of all 17D-derived vaccines.
Countries with risk for yellow fever virus (YFV) transmission* Africa Central and South America Angola Benin Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Central African Republic Chad† Congo, Republic of the Côte d'Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Gabon The Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Kenya Liberia Mali† Mauritania† Niger† Nigeria Rwanda Sierra Leone São Tomé and Principe Senegal Somalia Sudan† Tanzania Togo Uganda Argentina† Bolivia† Brazil† Colombia Ecuador† French Guiana Guyana Panama† Paraguay Peru† Suriname Trinidad and Tobago† Venezuela† * As defined by the World Health Organization, countries/areas where yellow fever has been reported currently or in the past, plus areas where vectors and animal reservoirs currently exist.
† These countries are not holoendemic (i.e., only a portion of the country has risk for YFV transmission).
Information about which areas are endemic is available at 
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents; US Department of Health and Human Services; 2008.
Available at 
Working Group on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children.
Guidelines for the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in Pediatric HIV Infection; 2009.
Available at  .) † New contraindication or precaution since the ACIP's recommendations for the use of yellow fever vaccine were published in 2002 (CDC.
International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP)* Source: Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE, Magill AJ, Shlim DR, Whatley AD, eds.
CDC health information for international travel 2010.
GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2009.
* International Health Regulations allow countries to require proof of yellow fever vaccination for entry and from travelers arriving from certain countries to prevent importation and indigenous transmission of yellow fever vaccine.
As proof of vaccination, vaccinees should receive a completed ICVP, validated (stamped and signed) with the stamp of the center where the vaccine was administered.
Medical contraindication section of the International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis (ICVP)* Source: Brunette GW, Kozarsky PE, Magill AJ, Shlim DR, Whatley AD, eds.
CDC health information for international travel 2010.
GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2009.
* A health-care provider who identifies a medical contraindication to yellow fever vaccination and wants to issue a medical waiver should fill out and sign the Medical Contraindications to Vaccination section of the ICVP.
The health-care provider also should give the traveler a signed and dated exemption letter.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Membership List, October 2009 Chair: Carol Baker, MD, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
Executive Secretary: Larry Pickering, MD, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia.
Members: Lance Chilton, MD, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico; Paul Cieslak, MD, Oregon Public Health Division, Portland, Oregon; Kristen Ehresmann, MPH, Minnesota Department of Health, St.
Paul, Minnesota; Janet Englund, MD, University of Washington and Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center, Seattle, Washington; Franklyn Judson, MD, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado; Wendy Keitel, MD, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Susan Lett, MD, Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Michael Marcy, MD, UCLA Center for Vaccine Research, Torrance, California; Cody Meissner, MD, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts; Kathleen Neuzil, MD, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington; Sara Rosenbaum, JD, George Washington University, District of Columbia; Mark Sawyer, MD, University of California - San Diego, California; Ciro Valent Sumaya, MD, Texas A&M Health Science Center, College Station, Texas; Jonathan Temte, MD, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin.
ExOfficio Members: James E.
Cheek, MD, Indian Health Service, Albuquerque, New Mexico; Wayne Hachey, DO, Department of Defense, Falls Church, Virginia; Geoffrey S.
Evans, MD, Health Resources and Services Administration, Rockville, Maryland; Bruce Gellin, MD, National Vaccine Program Office, District of Columbia; Linda Murphy, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Baltimore, Maryland; George T.
Curlin, MD, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland; Norman Baylor, MD, Food and Drug Administration, Bethesda, Maryland; Linda Kinsinger, MD, Department of Veterans Affairs, Durham, North Carolina.
Liaison Representatives: American Academy of Family Physicians, Doug Campos-Outcalt, MD, Phoenix, Arizona; American Academy of Pediatrics, Joseph Bocchini, MD, Shreveport, Louisiana, David Kimberlin, MD, Birmingham, Alabama; American College Health Association, James C.
Turner, MD, Charlottesville, Virginia; American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Stanley Gall, MD, Louisville, Kentucky; American College of Physicians, Gregory Poland, Rochester, Minnesota; American Geriatrics Society, Kenneth Schmader, MD, Durham, North Carolina; America's Health Insurance Plans, Mark Netoskie, MD, Houston, Texas; American Medical Association, Litjen Tan, PhD, Chicago, Illinois; American Osteopathic Association, Stanley Grogg, DO, Tulsa, Oklahoma; American Pharmacists Association, Stephan L.
Foster, PharmD, Memphis, Tennessee; Association for Prevention Teaching and Research, W.
Paul McKinney, MD, Louisville, Kentucky; Biotechnology Industry Organization, Clement Lewin, PhD, Cambridge, Massachusetts; Canadian National Advisory Committee on Immunization, Joanne Langley, MD, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, Christine Hahn, MD, Boise, Idaho; Department of Health, United Kingdom David M.
Salisbury, MD, London, United Kingdom; Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee, Alexis Elward, MD, St Louis, Missouri; Infectious Diseases Society of America, Samuel L.
Katz, MD, Durham, North Carolina; National Association of County and City Health Officials, Jeff Duchin, MD, Seattle, Washington; National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners, Patricia Stinchfield, St Paul, Minnesota; National Foundation for Infectious Diseases, William Schaffner, MD, Nashville, Tennessee; National Immunization Council and Child Health Program, Mexico, Vesta Richardson, MD, Mexico City, Mexico; National Medical Association, Patricia Whitley-Williams, MD, New Brunswick, New Jersey; National Vaccine Advisory Committee, Guthrie Birkhead, MD, Albany, New York; Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, Damian A.
Braga, Swiftwater, Pennsylvania, Peter Paradiso, PhD, Collegeville, Pennsylvania; Society for Adolescent Medicine, Amy Middleman, MD, Houston, Texas; Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America, Harry Keyserling, MD, Atlanta, Georgia.
Yellow Fever Vaccine Work Group Chair: Carol J.
Baker, MD, Houston, Texas.
Members: Elizabeth Barnett, MD, Boston, Massachusetts; Louisa Chapman, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; Eileen Farnon, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; Patrick Garmon, PharmD, PhD, Falls Church, Virginia; Mark D.
Gershman, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; Christina Greenaway, MD, Toronto, Canada; Kristen B.
Janusz, DVM, Fort Collins, Colorado; James F.
Jones, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; Franklyn N.
Judson, MD, Denver, Colorado; Katrin S.
Kohl, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; Nina Marano, DVM, Atlanta, Georgia; Michael E.
Neseman, MD, Lima, Peru; Karen O'Brien, MD, Fort Monroe, Virginia; Michele Sabourin, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Betsy Schroeder, MPH, Atlanta, Georgia; Barbara A.
Slade, MD, Atlanta, Georgia; J.
Erin Staples, MD, PhD, Fort Collins, Colorado; Andrea Sutherland, MD, Silver Springs, Maryland; Mary E.
Wilson, MD, Boston, Massachusetts.
The material in this report originated in the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Thomas Hearn, PhD, Director, and the Division of Vector-borne Diseases, Lyle Petersen, MD, Director.
* A list of the members of the work group appears on page 27 of this report.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Rickettsial Diseases Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: David W.
McCormick and William L.
Nicholson Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent rickettsial diseases in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Rickettsia, Orientia, Anaplasma, Ehrlichia, Neoehrlichia, and Neorickettsia spp.
Endemicity Worldwide; certain species important regionally Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Long-term travelers and expatriates; adventure tourists Prevention methods Avoid insect and other arthropod bites Diagnostic support A clinical laboratory certified in high complexity testing; commercial laboratories; state health departments; or contact CDC Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch (rzbepidiag@cdc.gov) Infectious agent Rickettsial infections are caused by various obligate intracellular bacteria within the order Rickettsiales and genera Rickettsia, Orientia, Anaplasma, Ehrlichia, "Neoehrlichia," and Neorickettsia (Table 4.16.1).
Rickettsia spp.
have been classically divided into the typhus group and spotted fever group (SFG).
Orientia tsutsugamushi and 2 new Orientia species comprise the scrub typhus group.
The rickettsial pathogens (and diseases) that travelers are more likely to encounter during travel outside the United States include Ehrlichia species (ehrlichiosis), Rickettsia africae (African tick bite fever), Rickettsia conorii (Mediterranean spotted fever), O.
tsutsugamushi (scrub typhus), Anaplasma phagocytophilum (anaplasmosis), Rickettsia rickettsii (known as both Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Brazilian spotted fever), and Rickettsia typhi (known as flea-borne typhus, endemic typhus, and murine typhus).
African tick bite fever is the most commonly diagnosed rickettsial disease among international travelers, although Rocky Mountain spotted fever among travelers from Mexico is a growing concern.
Many other rickettsial agents cause human infections across the globe, but the true burden of disease and full spectrum of clinical illness are not well understood.
Table 4.16.1: Classification, primary arthropod vector, and host association of rickettsiales known to cause disease in humans Human anaplasmosis (Anaplasma) Species Vector Animal Host(s) Geographic Distribution Anaplasma phagocytophilum Tick Small mammals, rodents, deer Primarily United States, worldwide Anaplasma platys Tick Dogs Argentina “Anaplasma capra”1 Tick Sheep, goats China Anaplasma ovis Tick Sheep China, Cyprus, Greece Anaplasma bovis Tick Unknown United States Human anaplasmosis (“Neoehrlichia"1) Species Vector Animal Host Geographic Distribution “Neoehrlichia mikurensis”1 Tick Rodents Europe, Asia Human ehrlichiosis (Ehrlichia) Species Vector Animal Host Geographic Distribution Ehrlichia muris muris Tick Rodents Asia, United States Ehrlichia muris eauclairensis Tick Rodents United States Ehrlichia ewingii Tick Dogs United States, Cameroon Ehrlichia canis Tick Dogs Worldwide; human cases in Venezuela, Costa Rica Ehrlichia ruminantium Tick Ruminants South Africa Sennetsu fever (Neorickettsia) Species Vector Animal Host Geographic Distribution Neorickettsia sennetsu Trematode Fish Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, possibly other parts of Asia Scrub typhus Species Vector Animal Host(s) Geographic Distribution Orientia tsutsugamushi “Orientia chiloensis”1 Larval trombiculid mite (chigger) Rodents Asia-Pacific region from maritime Russia and China to Indonesia and North Australia to Afghanistan; recently recognized in Chile as well as some countries of Africa “Orientia chuto”1 Larval trombiculid mite (chigger) Rodents United Arab Emirates, Kenya Spotted fever Disease Species Vector Animal Host(s) Geographic Distribution African tick bite fever Rickettsia africae Tick Ruminants Sub-Saharan Africa, West Indies Rickettsialpox Rickettsia akari Mite House mouse, wild rodents Countries of the former Soviet Union, South Africa, Korean peninsula, Turkey, Balkan countries, North and South America Queensland tick typhus Rickettsia australis Tick Rodents Australia, Tasmania Mediterranean spotted fever or Boutonneuse fever Rickettsia conorii2 Tick Dogs, Rodents Southern Europe, southern and western Asia, Africa, India Cat flea rickettsiosis Rickettsia felis Flea Domestic cat, rodents, opossum Europe, North and South America, Africa, Asia Far Eastern spotted fever Rickettsia heilongjiangensis Tick Rodents Far East of Russia, northern China, eastern Asia Aneruptive fever Rickettsia helvetica Tick Rodents Central and northern Europe, Asia Flinders Island spotted fever, Thai tick typhus Rickettsia honei, including strain “marmionii”1 Tick Rodents, reptiles Australia, Thailand Japanese spotted fever Rickettsia japonica Tick Rodents Japan Mediterranean spotted fever-like disease Rickettsia massiliae Tick Unknown, possibly dogs France, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Sicily, central Africa, Mali, United States Mediterranean spotted fever-like disease Rickettsia monacensis Tick Lizards, possibly birds Europe, North Africa Maculatum infection Rickettsia parkeri Tick Rodents North and South America Tick-borne lymphadenopathy (TIBOLA), Dermacentor-borne necrosis and lymphadenopathy (DEBONEL) Rickettsia raoultii Tick Unknown Europe, Asia Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Brazilian spotted fever, febre maculosa, São Paulo exanthematic typhus, Minas Gerais exanthematic typhus Rickettsia rickettsii Tick Rodents North, Central, and South America North Asian tick typhus, Siberian tick typhus Rickettsia sibirica Tick Rodents Russia, China, Mongolia Lymphangitis-associated rickettsiosis Rickettsia sibirica mongolotimonae Tick Rodents Southern France, Portugal, China, Africa Tick-borne lymphadenopathy (TIBOLA), Dermacentor-borne necrosis and lymphadenopathy (DEBONEL) Rickettsia slovaca Tick Lagomorphs, rodents, European boar Southern and eastern Europe, Asia; recently in United States tick colony (unknown origin) Typhus fever Disease Species Vector Animal Host(s) Geographic Distribution Epidemic typhus, sylvatic typhus Rickettsia prowazekii Human body louse, flying squirrel ectoparasites Human, flying squirrel Central Africa; Asia; North, Central and South America Flea-borne typhus, Murine typhus, endemic typhus Rickettsia typhi Flea Rodents Temperate, tropical, and subtropical areas worldwide Notes 1For pathogens not formally named, quotation marks are used.
2Includes 4 proposed subspecies that can be distinguished serologically and by PCR assay and that are the etiologic agents of Boutonneuse fever and Mediterranean tick fever in southern Europe and Africa (Rickettsia conorii subsp.
conorii), Indian tick typhus in south Asia (Rickettsia conorii subsp.
indica), Israeli tick typhus in southern Europe and the Middle East (Rickettsia conorii subsp.
israelensis), and Astrakhan spotted fever in the North Caspian region of Russia (Rickettsia conorii subsp.
caspiae), respectively.
Transmission Rickettsial pathogens (except for Neorickettsia sennetsu) are transmitted by arthropods such as fleas, lice, mites, and ticks.
Most rickettsial pathogens are transmitted by bites from these ectoparasites.
For some rickesttsial pathogens, transmission can occur by direct inoculation of infectious fluids or feces from the ectoparasites into bite site(s), abraded skin, or the conjunctiva.
Inhaling infectious material can also initiate infection for some of these organisms, but this is uncommon.
Although rare, transmission of some rickettsial pathogens has occurred through transfusion of infected blood products or organ transplantation.
Vectors that transmit each rickettsial species within the order Rickettsiales are listed in Table 4.16.1.
Epidemiology All age groups are at risk for rickettsial infections during travel to endemic areas, and both short- and long-term travelers are at risk for infection.
The risk of transmission is higher for travelers who participate in outdoor activities, those with close proximity to wild or domestic animals, and during times of the year when the feeding activities of the appropriate vector species and life stage are highest.
However, rickettsial infections can occur throughout the year in many parts of the world.
Because the incubation period for most rickettsial diseases is 5–10 days, travelers can experience signs and symptoms during their trip or within 1–2 weeks after returning home.
The most commonly reported rickettsial diseases in travelers include spotted fevers (African tick bite fever and Mediterranean spotted fever), murine typhus, and scrub typhus.
Healthcare professionals should be aware that travelers can also acquire other rickettsioses that are often specific to certain global regions with a diverse range of clinical symptoms.
These diseases, including those caused by emerging and newly recognized species, are not well known by many healthcare professionals, and diagnostic testing is not readily available except at specialized laboratories (Table 4.16.1).
Tick-borne spotted fever rickettsioses are the most frequently reported travel-associated rickettsial infections.
African tick bite fever, caused by R.
africae, is the most commonly reported rickettsial infection acquired during travel and the second-most common cause of fever, after malaria, in travelers returning from Sub-Saharan Africa.
Travelers who go on safari—especially those traveling to national parks, game hunters, and ecotourists to Sub-Saharan Africa—are at increased risk for African tick bite fever.
Cases commonly occur in clusters among travel groups; the diagnosis of African tick bite fever in a member of a family or tourist group should alert other travelers with similar exposures to seek medical care if they develop signs and symptoms compatible with this disease.
africae is also endemic to several islands of the West Indies in the Caribbean and imported cases have been described.
Mediterranean spotted fever is a tick-borne illness caused by R.
It is most commonly found throughout the Mediterranean basin region of Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, but cases have also been reported from India and Sub-Saharan Africa.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (also known as Brazilian spotted fever and other local names) is a tick-borne disease caused by R.
rickettsii.
It occurs throughout much of the Western Hemisphere, and cases are reported from Canada, the United States, Mexico, and many countries of Central and South America, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, and Panama.
Clusters of illness may be reported in families or in geographic areas.
Contact with dogs in rural and urban settings and outdoor activities such as hiking, hunting, fishing, and camping increase the risk of infection.
More recently, Rocky Mountain spotted fever in northern Mexico associated with dogs is an emerging public health concern.
Scrub typhus, caused by Orientia spp., is transmitted by larval stages of trombiculid mites encountered in high grass and brush.
Scrub typhus is endemic to Japan, Southeast Asia, Indonesia, eastern Australia, China, the Indian subcontinent, and some regions of south-central Russia.
In these regions, more than 1 million cases of scrub typhus occur annually, often in farmers or other occupationally exposed people.
Most travel-acquired cases of scrub typhus are reported during visits to rural areas in countries where O.
tsutusgamushi is endemic and are associated with outdoor activities such as camping, hiking, and rafting.
While urban cases have also been described, the risk to travelers is not well defined.
Recently, cases of disease have been described in the United Arab Emirates and Chile that were caused by newly recognized species of Orientia, including "Orientia chuto" and "Orientia chiloensis." There have not been any documented travel-associated cases of infection with these two pathogens, but this disease should also be considered in travelers to these regions who present with consistent symptoms.
Flea-borne rickettsial infections, caused by R.
typhi and Rickettsia felis, are distributed globally and particularly in and around urban port cities and coastal regions with large rodent populations.
Those exposed to flea-infested cats, dogs, or peridomestic rodents while traveling in endemic areas are at increased risk for flea-borne rickettsioses, such as murine typhus (R.
typhi) and cat flea rickettsiosis (R.
Murine typhus has been reported among travelers returning from Asia, Africa, and the Mediterranean Basin.
In the United States, most cases are reported from Hawaii, California, and Texas.
Recently, there has been an increase in the number of reported cases of murine typhus in California and Texas.
felis has been identified in several invertebrate hosts worldwide and has been reported as a cause of febrile illness in people in Africa.
Rickettsialpox, caused by Rickettsia akari, is transmitted by house mouse mites (Liponyssides sanguineus) and circulates in urban centers in Ukraine, South Africa, Korea, the Balkan states, and the United States.
Outbreaks of rickettsialpox most often occur after contact with infected peridomestic rodents and their mites, especially during natural die-offs or exterminations of infected rodents.
These events cause the mites to seek out new hosts, including humans.
Although it is likely that infested urban rodents are the major driver of human cases, R.
akari has also been identified in some wild rodent populations.
Louse-borne typhus, also known as epidemic typhus, is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii and is transmitted by the human body louse.
While this disease was formerly the cause of large epidemics in urban areas and among soldiers, since 1950 this disease has primarily occurred in refugee camps or among incarcerated populations where limited access to hygienic services leads to increased risk of human body lice.
Because body lice spread when clothing or blankets are shared, outbreaks often occur during the colder months.
Travelers who provide medical or humanitarian aid to refugee camps and impoverished regions affected by war, famine, or natural disasters are at the highest risk for epidemic typhus.
Recent foci of epidemic typhus have been identified in the Andes regions of South America and some parts of Africa (including, but not limited to, Burundi, Ethiopia, and Rwanda).
prowazekii infections leading to epidemic spread have not occurred in the United States for the past century; however, the native southern flying squirrel is a zoonotic reservoir, and sporadic cases of sylvatic transmission have occurred when these squirrels invaded houses or cabins.
Ehrlichiosis, caused by predominantly by Ehrlichia chaffeensis, Ehrlichia ewingii, and Ehrlichia muris euclairensis, and anaplasmosis, caused predominantly by Anaplasma phagocytophilum, are commonly reported tick-borne infections in the United States.
Infections with these organisms, as well as other Ehrlichia spp.
and Anaplasma spp., have been reported in Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America.
There are limited data on travel-associated cases of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis.
Sennetsu fever, caused by Neorickettsia sennetsu, occurs in Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, and other parts of Southeast Asia.
This disease can be contracted from eating raw fish infested with neorickettsiae-infected flukes.
Clinical presentation The symptoms of rickettsial infections are non-specific and can be difficult to diagnose, even for healthcare professionals with experience treating these diseases.
Classically, symptoms include the "rickettsial triad" of fever, headache, and rash, but these symptoms are variably present and this triad is not a reliable means of diagnosis.
Clinical presentations vary with the causative agent and patient.
Symptoms common to many rickettsial diseases include fever, headache, malaise, rash, nausea, or vomiting, which typically occur within 1 week of infection.
Many rickettsioses are accompanied by a maculopapular, vesicular, or petechial rash, or sometimes a dark necrotic lesion, known as an eschar, at the site of the tick or mite bite.
Although most rickettsial diseases cause mild to moderate illness, some have the potential to cause life-threatening infection.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever, scrub typhus, Mediterranean spotted fever, murine typhus, and epidemic typhus can be life-threatening, particularly if administration of appropriate antibiotics is delayed.
Prompt treatment with tetracycline-class antibiotics (most commonly doxycycline) is essential.
Early treatment saves lives and prevents long-term sequelae.
Early clinical symptoms of rickettsial diseases often present with similar signs and symptoms to other tropical diseases and can have similar geographical distribution and seasonality.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is the most severe spotted fever rickettsiosis.
Initial symptoms include fever, headache, nausea, and abdominal pain that can rapidly progress to septic shock and even death.
A maculopapular or petechial rash is commonly reported, although this rash may not occur until late in the illness course, and eschars are rarely seen.
Case fatality rates of 20–40% are seen among patients for whom antibiotic treatment is delayed.
Mediterranean spotted fever can also be life-threatening and should be suspected in patients with fever, rash, and eschar after recent travel to North Africa or the Mediterranean basin.
African tick bite fever is typically milder than other spotted fever group rickettsioses.
It should be suspected in a patient who presents with fever, headache, myalgia, and an eschar after recent travel to Sub-Saharan Africa or the Caribbean.
Regional lymphadenopathy is also common in patients with African tick bite fever.
Many patients may not remember a tick bite and not all will present with eschars.
Although African tick bite fever is typically mild, recovery is faster with appropriate treatment.
Scrub typhus presents with fever, headache, and myalgia; lymphadenopathy, respiratory symptoms, encephalitis, and eschars may also occur.
The respiratory sympoms are present in approximately two-thirds of patients, and severity ranges from mild cough to acute respiratory distress syndrome.
This disease should be suspected in travelers returning from endemic areas.
Scrub typhus can be fatal if not treated appropriately.
Patients with murine typhus usually present with a moderately severe but often otherwise non-specific febrile illness; approximately half of patients will develop a maculopapular rash, generally appearing on the trunk.
The fever can persist for up to 2 weeks in the absence of treatment.
Although generally less severe than diseases such as Rocky Mountain spotted fever or scrub typhus, patients can develop organ failure or other manifestations requiring hospitalization, and death can occur in some cases.
Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis also present as a non-specific febrile illness, although they are less commonly reported in travelers.
Cytopenias, particularly leukopenia and thrombocytopenia, are common and should heighten suspicion for these diseases.
Other clinical signs and symptoms are similar to other rickettsioses.
Rash may be seen in some children with ehrlichiosis, but rash is not a feature of anaplasmosis.
Sennetsu fever presents with fever, weakness, lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly, and the symptoms can resemble infectious mononucleosis.
Although this disease is rarely reported in endemic regions, serologic evidence suggests that it may be an underrecognized cause of fever in these regions.
Diagnosis Timely diagnosis and initiation of appropriate antibiotic therapy for rickettsial infections rely on clinical recognition and an appropriate epidemiological context.
There are limited diagnostic modalities available, particularly during acute illness.
Serologic testing provides retrospective confirmation of rickettisal infection and is most interpretable when acute- and convalescent-phase serum samples are compared.
In these circumstances, a ≥4-fold rise in antibody titer between paired specimens taken 2–4 weeks apart (some infections require more than 28 days to develop a seroconversion) in indirect immunofluorescence antibody (IFA) assays is diagnostic.
Commercial laboratories offer some serologic testing for rickettsioses, anaplasmosis, ehrlichiosis, and scrub typhus.
Testing is available through CDC for serologic tests using rickettsial antigens not routinely available through commercial laboratories.
Because of cross-reactivity of antigens, some antibodies may react in group-targeted serology, limiting identification to the group or genus rather than species-specific level.
During acute illness, PCR assays and immunohistochemical analyses may be helpful for diagnosing many of these diseases, but the clinical utility of diagnostic results is highly dependent upon the type and timing of specimen submitted.
If an eschar is present, a swab or biopsy sample of the eschar can be evaluated by PCR to provide a species-specific diagnosis.
PCR evaluation of eschar specimens is sensitive and reliable and should be pursued, but not all rickettsial infections are associated with eschars.
Biopsy specimens of rash lesions or whole blood specimens can also be evaluated by PCR assays, but these specimens are generally less sensitive than samples derived from an eschar due to the relatively lower concentration of rickettsial DNA in blood and biopsy specimens compared to eschar swabs.
Blood is often positive by PCR only after the disease has progressed significantly and the patient is severely ill.
If ehrlichiosis or anaplasmosis is suspected, PCR performed using whole blood provides the best diagnostic test while symptomatic.
A buffy coat may provide presumptive evidence of infection if examined to identify characteristic intraleukocytic morulae, but this is a specialized test requiring trained operators and may not be widely available.
Ehrlichiosis, anaplasmosis, and spotted fever rickettsiosis (including African tick bite fever) are nationally notifiable diseases in the United States, including those diagnosed as imported cases.
Treatment of patients with possible rickettsioses should be started as soon as the disease is suspected.
Initiation of treatment should never be withheld pending confirmatory testing because certain infections can be rapidly progressive and early treatment reduces morbidity and mortality.
Immediate empiric treatment with a tetracycline is recommended for patients of all ages.
There are limited available data to support the efficacy of other antibiotics for rickettsial infections.
Chloramphenicol may be an alternative in some cases of rickettsial infection, such as persons with tetracycline allergies or tetracycline intolerance or pregnant women, but its use is associated with higher case fatality rate, particularly for Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
In some areas, tetracycline-resistant scrub typhus has been reported and azithromycin may be an effective alternative.
For severe cases of scrub typhus, the combination of intravenous azithromycin and doxycycline may lead to more rapid resolution of fever.
Limited clinical experience has shown that A.
phagocytophilum and R.
africae infections respond to treatment with rifampin, which may be an alternate drug for some pregnant or doxycycline-intolerant patients.
Expert advice from an infectious disease specialist should be sought if alternative treatments are being considered.
Prevention No vaccine is available for preventing rickettsial infections.
Antibiotics are not recommended for prophylaxis of rickettsial diseases and should not be given to asymptomatic people following suspected exposure.
Travelers should minimize exposure to potentially infectious arthropods (including lice, fleas, ticks, mites) and close contact with animal hosts (particularly rodents, free-roaming dogs, and wildlife).
Travelers can reduce their risk of infection by using approved insect or tick repellents on skin and clothing, performing self-examination after visits to vector-infested areas, and wearing protective clothing.
These precautions are especially important for people with underlying immunosuppressive conditions because they may be more susceptible to severe disease.
For more detailed information, see Mosquitoes, Ticks, and Other Arthropods.
Acknowledgments The following author contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Christopher Paddock.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Acknowledgments RELATED PAGES Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Poliomyelitis Rabies Schistosomiasis Tick-Borne Encephalitis VIEW ALL Yellow Book Schistosomiasis SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Adventure Travel Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter author: Christopher Van Tilburg Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should educate international travelers about the risks associated with adventure travel and how to prevent them.
Introduction Adventure travel is unique because trips revolve around active human locomotion and usually involve challenging terrain, extreme weather, longer durations, and remote locales.
Adventure travel includes activities like hiking, trekking, backpacking, cycling, diving, mountaineering, river rafting, skiing, and surfing.
Adventure travelers might conduct scientific research, drive overland, or provide humanitarian relief as part of an expedition.
Popular trips include climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, exploring the North and South Poles, hiking the Inca Trail, sailing the South Pacific, diving the Galápagos, and trekking to Everest Base Camp.
Compared to other travel, risk for illness and injury is much greater during adventure for several reasons (Box 8.7.1).
Risk may be viewed as a function of three variables: probability, consequence, and cognitive bias.
The probability of a mishap occurring is based on the duration, frequency, and severity of the hazards encountered.
Objective hazards include difficult environmental conditions, such as terrain and weather.
Dehydration, insufficient sleep, and poor nutrition are examples of subjective or human-controlled hazards.
Box 8.7.1 Adventure Travel Risk Factors for Illness and Injury Climate, terrain, and weather can be extreme.
Communication often is limited, even with modern technology.
Destinations can be remote and lack access to medical care.
Physical exertion increases caloric, fluid, sleep, and thermoregulation requirements.
Trips may span several weeks, months, or years.
Trips may be goal-oriented, which can cause travelers to exceed safety limits.
Unexpected complications can occur with flight schedules, vehicle breakdowns, weather delays, and other factors.
Consequence, the second variable, is the result or effect of an illness or injury.
In adventure travel, where conditions are often austere and access to definitive care is remote, even if the probability of a mishap occurring is low or the injury is minor, the consequences are nearly always magnified.
Cognitive bias, the third variable, is the human factor of interpreting events, facts, and other data based on a set of emotions, experiences, and personal beliefs that may not be correct, but which may influence decisions and judgment.
Many types of bias exist.
Familiarity and consistency are biases when someone is familiar with a particular environment or when the environment rarely changes, causing the adventure traveler to miss important warning signs.
Expert halo is when a highly skilled adventure traveler, such as a guide, thinks they cannot make a mistake.
Scarcity is when someone does not want to miss a rare event, like summiting a mountain, and exceeds safety limits.
Social facility is when peer pressure impacts one's decisions.
Travelers should be vigilant about the probability, consequence, and cognitive bias of risk and try to make good decisions both before and during their trip.
Pre-travel considerations During the pre-travel consultation, in addition to providing routine travel medicine advice, gather extra information and discuss precautions for adventure travel.
Several excellent wilderness medicine resources exist, including resources available through the Wilderness Medical Society .
Trip type Obtain details about the type, length, and remoteness of the trip.
Guided trips could eliminate some of the need for complex logistical planning on the part of the traveler.
Even with guided trips, though, encourage participants to ask trip organizers about Contingency plans for emergencies; guide experience and medical training; recommendations for medications and medical supplies to be carried by participants; types of medical kits and safety equipment carried by guides; and types of recommended insurance.
In a few cases, such as Mount Everest expeditions and polar cruises, a formal medical officer with a comprehensive medical kit might accompany the participants.
Confirm that the experience, fitness, and skill level of the participant matches the trip type.
Novices at diving, mountaineering, sailing, or skiing should participate in instructional trips.
Encourage people with less experience or who are visiting a location for the first time to go on a guided trip.
Personal health requirements Travelers might need medical clearance to participate in a trip.
For travelers with chronic diseases, healthcare professionals should carefully consider medical clearance and provide prescriptions for regular medications.
Screen travelers for conditions that can be exacerbated by environmental hazards or exertion.
Check for a history of anaphylaxis-level allergies, asthma, cardiac disease, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, diabetes, joint replacement, opioid-dependent pain, oxygen-dependent emphysema, recent surgery, sleep apnea, or stroke.
Any of these conditions could indicate that a traveler is at risk for adverse outcomes under physiological stressful conditions.
Travelers with a previous history of environmental illness (e.g., altitude illness, anaphylaxis, frostbite, heat exhaustion, hypothermia) could be at risk for recurrence.
Counsel travelers to carry electronic copies of their most recent electrocardiogram and chest x-ray, their medical and surgical history, and a medication list.
Blood type may be useful to know for trips in extremely remote locations or long expeditions.
Caution travelers who rely on battery-operated devices (e.g., continuous positive airway pressure machine, insulin pump) about the possibility of device failure or lack of electricity and discuss the need for a backup plan or the possibility that they should avoid adventure travel altogether.
Some people with chronic illnesses, especially those who are medically dependent on electronic devices, who have difficulty ambulating, or who are medically frail, likely are not good candidates for adventure travel.
Adequate hydration, nutrition, and sleep could be in short supply, especially with increased demands due to exertion, terrain, and weather.
During the planning stages, travelers should pay attention to how they will obtain food, rest, and water on their journey.
Insurance Insurance comes in many forms and is widely variable; having insurance does not guarantee rescue.
Warn travelers that they might need to pay in advance for rescue, evacuation, and repatriation, especially for aeromedical transport from remote locations, so they should bring a credit card with a high credit limit and emergency cash.
Insurance coverage can be contingent on deductibles, maximum expenditures, medical control approval, and preexisting conditions.
Insurers also might not authorize aeromedical transport.
Insurance companies might deny claims involving acts of war or civil unrest, alcohol or drugs, chronic illness, mental health, and pregnancy.
Travelers should read policies carefully before purchasing insurance and departing on their trip.
Types of travel insurance important for adventure travel Comprehensive expedition policies can include travel, medical, rescue, repatriation, and security services.
Domestic health insurance might or might not be effective outside a home country.
Often, travelers need to pay up front for medical care and get reimbursed from health insurance providers once they return home.
Short-term rescue insurance is available in some destination countries through local helicopter rescue companies, mountaineering clubs, and ski resorts.
Travel insurance, which often includes medical, trip cancellation, evacuation, and repatriation benefits, might exclude coverage for wilderness rescue and adventure sports like diving, mountaineering, and skiing.
An adventure sports rider is available with some travel insurance policies.
Wilderness rescue insurance policies are available through specialty clubs, outdoor and professional associations, and organizations (e.g., the American Alpine Club, Divers Alert Network).
First aid and safety training If travelers have time, they should consider completing basic life support and first aid courses before departure.
These can be particularly helpful for regular adventure travelers.
Such courses can be found through local community colleges and fire departments, the American Heart Association and the American Red Cross .
Emergency resources Travelers should always keep their credit cards, immunization records (including COVID-19 vaccine), money, passport, and other documents on their person because they might need to seek medical care or evacuate urgently without their luggage.
Travelers also can store backup copies as a PDF or JPG format on a mobile phone.
Before leaving on their adventure, travelers should know embassy contacts, emergency escape routes, local medical facilities, and local rescue resources.
Travel medicine practitioners willing to accept emails, phone calls, and text messages from travelers abroad should make sure that travelers understand this is not a substitute for local emergency care.
In a pre-travel medicine encounter, physicians might have only a few minutes to educate travelers.
Depending on the type, duration, and location of trip, a few key adventure travel health and safety tips (Box 8.7.2) might be worth discussing.
Box 8.7.2 Adventure Travel Health and Safety Tips Allergies and Anaphylaxis Bites, stings, food, and other allergens can cause anaphylaxis.
Epinephrine and corticosteroids can be lifesaving if administered immediately.
Altitude Illness Travelers to high elevations might require acetazolamide, dexamethasone, or other medications to prevent or treat altitude illness.
Ataxia and mental status changes are warning signs for high-altitude cerebral edema.
Breathlessness at rest is the sign of life-threatening high-altitude pulmonary edema.
Basic Wound Care Travelers should be aware of basic wound care and self-treatment with antibiotics.
Redness, swelling, pus, and warmth are signs of infection that might require medical attention.
Frostbite Frostbite is treated with rapid rewarming with non-scalding, warm water.
Warn travelers not to allow a thawed extremity to refreeze.
Heat Stroke Heat stroke, marked by a temperature of ≥40°C (≥104°F) and mental status changes, is a medical emergency.
Hypothermia For hypothermia, cessation of shivering and mental status changes are dangerous signs.
Rabies Rabies is prevalent in many countries around the world.
Pre-exposure (pre-travel) vaccination should be considered because rabies immune globulin and vaccine might be difficult to find in certain countries.
Venomous Creatures Jellyfish, scorpions, snakes, spiders, and ticks can deliver toxic venom, inoculate microbes, and cause anaphylaxis.
Region-specific antivenoms can be found for certain venomous species around the world.
Consider referring patients to the embassy in the countries they are visiting for more information on specific venomous animals and where to find antivenom.
Wilderness Clothing Remind travelers that clothing helps prevent heat and cold illness, as well as bites and stings from insects and other arthropods.
Cold weather clothing should be made of Merino wool, nylon, polyester, or, in cold, dry weather, down.
Layering typically consists of a base layer, insulating layers of heavy-pile polyester or nylon-encased polyester (down suffices if traveling to a location that is dry and cold but does not function well when it gets wet), and a windproof, waterproof outer layer of tightly woven nylon with a durable water-repellent coating.
Gloves, goggles, hat, neck warmer, and warm socks are vital to cover all exposed skin.
For hot weather, sun- and insect-protective clothing is important, including loose-fitting, lightweight clothing made from cotton, nylon, or polyester blend.
Long-sleeved shirts and long pants offer the most protection.
A bandana or buff, a sun shirt with a hood, and a wide-brim sun hat should be used to protect the head and neck; sunglasses are necessary to protect the eyes.
See the corresponding Yellow Book chapters for more details on protection from sun exposure and extreme temperatures.
Clothing should be sprayed with permethrin to repel insects and other arthropods.
Footwear should be activity-specific boots or shoes; these are equally important in a marine or mountain environment.
Advise travelers to never go without footwear because even a minor foot injury can be debilitating.
Communication and route-finding equipment Travelers should carry a smart phone equipped with a global positioning system (GPS).
Phones can be used to store electronic versions of documents (e.g., embassy and hospital contact information, insurance policies, medical data, passport copies, plane tickets) in email, JPG, or PDF format.
Because not all North American mobile phones and service plans are compatible with international networks, travelers should check with their local (i.e., domestic) carrier before departing.
Alternatively, an unlocked (not restricted to any carrier) global-compatible mobile phone can be used with a local SIM card in the country of travel.
Inexpensive phones and SIM cards are usually available at stores in airports and major cities.
In some countries, registration to obtain a local SIM card requires fingerprinting and a passport.
Adventure travelers should download and learn how to use several apps.
These include airline, hotel, and rideshare apps to help with booking.
Communication apps for texting are used widely by travelers, hotels, guides, and outfitters.
Navigation apps are essential for route-finding; the local maps should be downloaded beforehand to be used offline.
In a given country or region, specific apps have more detailed and up-to-date maps.
Weather apps are useful as well.
Customs and passport control apps from the U.S.
government can help speed up re-entry into the United States.
An emergency satellite communication messenger is an excellent tool to carry.
This device can sync with a mobile phone to send routine and emergency messages, usually via text using satellites.
In areas where cellular phone service is not available, travelers might consider an unlocked (i.e., no frequency restrictions) VHF/UHF radio or a satellite phone.
Several countries require users of handheld radios or satellite phones to have permits.
Remind travelers that electronics are not foolproof; often they are limited by battery power, deep canyons, dense cloud cover, government restrictions, and physical damage caused by extreme temperatures, impact, or water exposure.
A backup external battery and external power source (e.g., a solar or dynamo charger) are useful.
Maps and other data should be downloaded.
A paper map and compass should be considered in case electronics fail.
Emergency kits Adventure travelers often require a comprehensive, yet compact, personal emergency kit for medical care, survival, and equipment repair.
Beyond a basic travel health kit, adventure travelers should consider packing additional items due to the remote nature of their travel.
Standard kits might need to be augmented for specific types of travel (e.g., high elevation, jungle, open ocean, polar, undersea).
If travelers are on guided trips, they might only need a small personal medical kit.
Before they depart, travelers should determine whether guides provide group emergency equipment (e.g., automatic external defibrillator, comprehensive medical kit, portable hyperbaric chamber and oxygen, portable stretcher).
Be cautious if asked to prescribe medications for guides to stock in the expedition medical kit intended for clients' use.
Third-party use of prescription medication is unlawful in most jurisdictions and is best left for the guide company medical director.
Medications In addition to routine travel medications (e.g., analgesics, antibiotics for travelers' diarrhea, antiemetics, or motion sickness medication), consider prescribing altitude illness medicines, non-sedating antihistamines, an ophthalmologic antibiotic, and/or an oral antibiotic for skin and soft tissue infections.
For situations where medical help may be inaccessible, consider added medications with adequate training.
Instruct travelers on self-treatment of anaphylaxis with an epinephrine auto-injector because this can be lifesaving.
People with diabetes traveling in remote locations with limited access to help should consider carrying glucagon or glucose gel for hypoglycemia.
Safety supplies In addition to items typically included in a general travel health kit, adventure travelers should consider packing safety equipment that can help in an emergency (Box 8.7.3).
Box 8.7.3 Additional Safety Equipment: A Checklist for Adventure Travelers Antibacterial wipes Bandana, sun hat, and sunglasses Chemical heat packs Duct tape Earplugs and eyeshade Emergency sleeping sack or tarp Eyeglasses (spare pair) Hand sanitizer Headlight with extra batteries Insect repellent Laundry detergent Lip balm and sunscreen Mobile phone with global positioning system (GPS) app Multi-tool Oral rehydration salts Perlon cord Plastic cable ties and polyurethane straps Rain poncho and umbrella Safety pins Satellite communication device Solar/dynamo charger or spare phone power pack Toilet paper Water purification tablets Whistle ON THIS PAGE Introduction Pre-travel considerations Communication and route-finding equipment RELATED PAGES Travel for Work and Other Reasons Humanitarian Aid Workers Long-Term Travelers and Expatriates International Student Travel Mass Gatherings Sex and Travel VIEW ALL Yellow Book Sex and Travel SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Study Abroad and Other International Student Travel Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Kristina M.
Angelo and Catherine I.
Ebelke Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should ensure students are up to date on travel vaccines and prepared to manage their health before studying abroad.
Introduction Students travel internationally for many reasons, including studying abroad, leisure travel during a gap year, participating in medical rotations, volunteering, and visiting friends and relatives.
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, nearly 350,000 U.S.
students studied abroad annually.
Study abroad notably declined by 53% in the 2019–2020 academic year and by 91% in the 2020–2021 academic year.
Numbers are expected to rebound to pre-pandemic levels in the coming years.
The most common destination for U.S.
students to study abroad is Europe, but they also study in low- or middle-income countries.
Travel-associated morbidity and mortality is a concern for all destinations.
The purpose of travel and the student's planned activities should be captured at the pre-travel consultation as part of the risk assessment.
Medical, nursing, or veterinary students studying abroad can be at risk for acquiring blood-borne pathogens or zoonotic infections, and students participating in humanitarian activities could experience stress-related problems and environmental hazards.
Short- or long-term travel for non-academic reasons, including leisure, athletics, volunteer work, and gap year experiences, can also be associated with travel-related risks.
Resources for students preparing to travel abroad include Their institution's international program office, Study abroad administrators, Healthcare professionals at a pre-travel consultation either at their institution or in the community, International students from their intended destinations, and Other students who have returned from a similar trip (see Table 8.5.1 for additional online study abroad resources).
Appropriate preparation can help students stay healthy during travel and reduce the chance they will become ill or engage in behaviors abroad that can place their health at risk.
Table 8.5.1: Online health and safety information for students, healthcare professionals, and international program office professionals Organization/Source Resources Provided American College Health Foundation Guide for Travel Health Practices at Institutions of Higher Education Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Country-specific health information Before, during, and after travel tips for students The Center for Global Education, SAFETI (Study Abroad First-Educational Travel Information) Videos on health issues (alcohol awareness); A–Z index on health and safety issues; courses and workshops Equaldex Global LGB+ rights and local law information ILGA World Sexual orientation laws by country NAFSA: Association of International Educators Study abroad program guidance Pathways to Safety International Interpersonal and sex-based violence assistance U.S.
Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs Country-specific safety guidance Travel advisories with safety and security information Special considerations for U.S.
students abroad U.S.
Department of State Overseas Security Advisory Council Crime and safety reports Travel guidance Traveler toolkit Pre-departure preparation Healthcare professionals: roles and responsibilities Healthcare professionals preparing students for travel should have appropriate travel medicine training.
When conducting pre-travel consultations with student travelers, cover the core topics of risk assessment, risk mitigation, and preparation to respond effectively to health and safety problems while abroad.
Ensure that students have received all appropriate pre-departure health trainings for their institution or program.
Make recommendations about vaccines, prophylaxis, and self-treatment medications; provide information on country-specific health risks; and give guidance on how to obtain medical and dental care while abroad.
Remind students to pack a travel health kit.
Advance planning is important for students who are taking prescription medication.
The travel health professional should work closely with the student's prescribing healthcare professionals to facilitate coordination of medication management during travel.
Considerations to address include plans for procuring medications while abroad, insurance coverage, continuity of care while abroad, and medication letters (with names of medications, supplies, and equipment) to accompany the traveler.
Special consideration should be given to learning about the regulations in the destination countries regarding amount of medication allowed, controlled or regulated substances, and required documentation; resources include International Narcotics Control Board and the destination's embassy or ministry of health.
The International Association of Medical Assistance to Travelers (IAMAT) offers a valuable free interactive Guide to Traveling with Medications .
Other relevant topics to discuss include Alcohol and illicit drug use and dependency Blood-borne pathogen precautions (e.g., avoiding acupuncture, blood products, needles, piercings and tattoos, surgeries) while traveling Sexual orientation-related health issues, including information for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and other sexual minority (LGB+) students Managing stress and other mental health issues associated with international travel (e.g., culture shock) Practicing safer sex, including what to do in the event of pregnancy Share information on risk mitigation of unintentional injuries.
Provide additional recommendations for students with disabilities or special needs, students with preexisting health conditions, and students participating in humanitarian activities.
Students should purchase travel insurance that covers major medical, evacuation, and repatriation for the duration of travel; "study abroad" insurance plans might be available through the school or parent institution and could provide a reasonable, cost-effective option.
Encourage student travelers planning adventure activities (e.g., kayaking, mountaineering, spelunking) to include extreme sports coverage on their health insurance policy.
All students should register with the Department of State's Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) .
They should also check the U.S.
Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs website for country-specific safety guidance and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travelers' Health website destination pages and Travel Health Notices for destination-specific health advice (e.g., best practices for disease prevention, outbreak information).
International program office and institute of higher education: roles and responsibilities The international program office plays a crucial role in supporting the health and safety of student travelers.
Coordinating and ensuring robust pre-travel preparation, including relevant health and safety information, is essential.
Information to cover includes, but is not limited to, emergency protocols, seeking assistance abroad, and communication procedures.
Staff should encourage students to seek pre-travel health visits for any personal physical or mental health concerns related to their travels, as well as for any destination-specific needs.
Staff should encourage students to familiarize themselves with codes of conduct for their home and host institutions, as well as local health and safety issues, cultural norms, laws, and political climate.
Pre-travel health and safety orientations should be provided and mandatory; it is also important for faculty and staff accompanying group travel to attend.
Students should work with the international programs office to develop an individual communications plan that outlines both who a student should inform in the event of an urgent health issue and how they can reach them.
Institutes of higher education should establish a travel registry for all institution-related international travel, which includes information regarding all travelers' destinations, contact information, dates of travel, and emergency contact information.
Establishment of an international travel committee may be useful to review proposed travel to higher-risk destinations or travel which involves higher-risk activities (e.g., adventure travel).
This committee may also serve as an established group of campus personnel who can respond in the case of an emergency abroad.
Specific issues Alcohol and illicit drugs A lower minimum drinking age and cultural acceptability of alcohol consumption in the host country, combined with stress or mental health issues, can lead to increased alcohol consumption among students when abroad.
Use and abuse of alcohol or illicit drugs pose serious health consequences, can increase the risk for accidents and injuries, and make students potential targets for crime or incarceration.
Moreover, availability of recreational drugs (e.g., cannabis) or their use by citizens of host countries might not necessarily mean that their use is legal for international travelers.
Although cannabis is legal under certain U.S.
state laws, its use continues to be illegal under U.S.
federal law.
airports and airlines operate under federal jurisdiction and, as such, do not recognize the medical marijuana laws or cards of any state.
In countries outside the United States where cannabis is illegal, students found in possession of the drug—even those with a valid U.S.
prescription—can be arrested; if found guilty, they could be deported, fined, or imprisoned.
Both healthcare professionals and international program office personnel should counsel students about the consequences of alcohol and illicit drug use, which may include expulsion from the program if substance use guidelines are not followed.
Advise students who are planning to drink alcohol to do so responsibly and in moderation and to seek medical attention if they feel ill after drinking.
Programs should strongly discourage all illicit drug use.
Blood-borne pathogens Students planning to provide medical, nursing, or veterinary care overseas should receive hepatitis B vaccination or have evidence of immunity.
Ask students about the availability of personal protective equipment at their destination and discuss the possibility of bringing their own.
Inform these travelers about what to do in the event of a needlestick injury.
At the pre-travel consultation, consider providing post-exposure HIV prophylaxis for students to carry with them in the event of a blood-borne exposure if they will be providing health care in a country with high HIV prevalence.
Provide information on blood safety in the event the traveler has an emergency, has an unexpected blood-borne exposure, or needs a blood transfusion (see What to Do When Sick Abroad).
Warn students of the risks associated with getting acupuncture, piercings, or tattoos while abroad; sterility of needles or ink cannot be guaranteed.
Psychological counseling is essential after a blood-borne exposure.
Emergency contact information Students should always carry their personal information and important telephone numbers as hard copies and electronically in their mobile devices.
The Center for Global Education offers a printable sample emergency contact card .
For students with additional mental health or physical needs, provide written documentation of all health issues, prescribed medications, and recommended care plans as well as the contact information for their healthcare professionals at home; students should ensure that this letter gets translated accurately into the local language(s).
Students should leave photocopies of all travel documents at home with their emergency contacts, with the international program office, and with group travel trip leaders (if applicable).
Sexual orientation-related issues Discussing sexual orientation topics in pre-travel discussions can positively impact a student's international travel experience.
Students, including those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or other sexual minorities (LGB+), should familiarize themselves with cultural attitudes, local laws, and tolerance in their host country.
Check the U.S.
Department of State website and specific U.S.
embassy or consulate websites in countries and cities around the world to obtain information on host country laws.
Equaldex publishes maps of sexual orientation laws by country, including protection against discrimination and criminalization of same-sex sexual acts.
Additional research and planning might be needed to identify healthcare professionals in the host country with experience working with LGB+ students, if needed.
Mental health Mental health issues are prevalent among students, irrespective of plans for international travel.
International travel can be stressful for students who might be inexperienced travelers, reliant on their home support systems (which may not be readily accessible while abroad), or traveling for longer periods of time.
Culture shock, fear, insecurity, isolation, and loneliness can exacerbate existing mental health issues or unveil new ones.
When deciding on a destination for study, students should consider their preexisting level of mental (and physical) well-being and the availability of local resources.
Encourage students to take an active role in planning for care abroad by disclosing all chronic mental health conditions and support needs during the pre-travel consultation and to the international programs office before departure.
Advise students to continue their routine medications while abroad; assist with developing a plan to manage an exacerbation of symptoms while traveling with their prescribing providers (e.g., how to contact their prescribing provider, therapist, and support community; where to seek local care; how to repatriate in the event of severe mental health issues).
Students should confirm that mental health services are covered by their travel health insurance.
Recommend that students engage in self-care abroad by getting regular exercise, establishing good sleep patterns, joining interest groups (e.g., organizations at the destination for LGB+ students), and maintaining meaningful contact with family and friends at home.
Provide information about the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) or other diseases that may have negative outcomes in the event of pregnancy (e.g., Zika).
Students should follow local social norms about public displays of affection and dating to avoid possible adverse consequences; they also should be empowered and encouraged to report any episode of sexual harassment or assault to local authorities, emergency contacts, the international program office, or the nearest U.S.
consulate or embassy.
During and after travel considerations During their time abroad, students should adhere to food and water precautions, and use insect repellent to prevent vector-borne diseases.
Students should seek health care immediately and refer to their individual communications plan with the international program office if they become ill, injured, or have a bloodborne pathogen exposure.
Students who become ill after returning home should alert healthcare professionals about their international travel.
Students with fever ≤1 year after returning from study or travel in malaria-endemic areas warrant testing for malaria.
Students with new sexual partners while abroad should be tested for STIs if they develop symptoms while abroad or after they return home; they also should be screened for STIs when they return home.
After returning home, students will undergo a period of readjustment.
All students should have access to mental health services after return to help cope with events that occurred overseas and to assist with reverse culture shock.
Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Sarah Kohl.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Pre-departure preparation Specific issues During and after travel considerations Acknowledgements RELATED PAGES Travel for Work and Other Reasons Humanitarian Aid Workers Long-Term Travelers and Expatriates Mass Gatherings Adventure Travel VIEW ALL Yellow Book Mass Gatherings SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sepsis SEARCH About Risk Factors Prevention Managing Recovery from Sepsis Get Ahead of Sepsis Materials for Patients Get Ahead of Sepsis VIEW ALL ESPAÑOL About Get Ahead of Sepsis Learn how CDC is educating patients and healthcare providers about sepsis.
Hospital Sepsis Program Core Elements Monitor and optimize hospital management and outcomes of sepsis.
About Sepsis Managing Recovery from Sepsis People at Increased Risk for Sepsis Preventing Infections That Can Lead to Sepsis Materials and Guidance Get Ahead of Sepsis Materials for Patients Download or order materials to educate yourself and your loved ones about sepsis.
Learn More Get Ahead of Sepsis Materials for Healthcare Providers Download or order materials to educate yourself and your colleagues about sepsis.
Get Ahead of Sepsis Partner Toolkit Use CDC materials to educate your partners about sepsis.
Caring for Patients with Sepsis Learn what to do if you suspect sepsis and access resources to help.
Sepsis Sepsis is the body’s extreme response to an infection.
It is a life-threatening medical emergency.
Weekly August 03, 2001 / 50(30);643-5 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Fever, Jaundice, and Multiple Organ System Failure Associated With 17D-Derived Yellow Fever Vaccination, 1996--2001 At the June 2001 meeting of the Advisory Committee for Immunization Practices (ACIP), seven cases of multiple organ system failure (MOSF) in recipients of 17D-derived yellow fever (YF) vaccine were presented (1--3).
In response, an ACIP working group was formed to review the cases, assess the risk for serious adverse events following YF vaccination, and consider revision of the 1990 YF vaccination recommendations (4).
This notice summarizes these cases and describes an enhanced surveillance program designed to refine risk estimates and improve histopathologic documentation of MOSF potentially associated with YF vaccination.
Derived from the original 17D YF vaccine strain, the live, attenuated 17D-204 and 17DD YF strains are the most commonly used YF vaccines (5).
In 1999 and 2000, two Brazilian residents aged 5 and 22 years became ill after receiving 17DD YF vaccine administered during a campaign initiated in response to a local YF epidemic.
During 1996--2001, five persons aged 56--79 years, including four U.S.
residents and one Australian resident (two countries where YF is not endemic) became ill after receiving 17D-204 YF vaccine administered in anticipation of international travel.
Two of the five persons were planning to travel to countries where local YF transmission had never been reported.
All seven persons became ill within 2--5 days of vaccination and required intensive care; six died.
None had documented immunodeficiency, and all were in their usual state of health before vaccination.
Illness was characterized by fever, lymphocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, mild-to-moderate elevation of hepatocellular enzymes, hypotension with poor tissue perfusion, and respiratory failure.
Most patients also had headache, vomiting, myalgias, hyperbilirubinemia, and renal failure requiring hemodialysis.
In the Brazilian and Australian cases, histopathologic changes in the liver included midzonal necrosis, microvesicular fatty change, and Councilman bodies, which are characteristic of wild-type YF.
Using immunohistochemistry (IHC), YF viral antigen was identified in areas of midzonal necrosis in liver specimens from the two 17DD recipients.
In a liver specimen from the third patient (a 17D-204 recipient), electron microscopy showed flavivirus-like particles in the areas of midzonal necrosis.
Vaccine-type YF virus was isolated from blood and autopsy material (i.e., brain, liver, kidney, spleen, lung, skeletal muscle, or skin) of these three persons, who died 8--11 days after vaccination.
Vaccine-type YF virus was isolated from the blood of two of the four U.S.
patients (17D-204 recipients) 7--8 days after vaccination.
Viremia after vaccination with YF may occur in healthy persons.
Virus also was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of one of these two patients, although the presence of red blood cells and absence of white blood cells in CSF may suggest that blood contaminating the CSF was the possible source of virus.
No hepatocellular necrosis was observed in a liver specimen from the only U.S.
case-patient who underwent biopsy; however, IHC revealed rare YF virus antigen within Kupffer cells.
The 17D-204 and 17DD YF vaccines are among the safest and most effective viral vaccines (5).
Since 1965, approximately eight million doses of 17D-derived YF vaccine have been administered to U.S.
travelers and approximately 300 million doses have been administered to persons in areas where YF is endemic.
The frequency of anaphylaxis attributed to YF vaccine is approximately one in 130,000 vaccinees (4,6).
Reports of other severe illnesses attributed to YF vaccination (including encephalitis, primarily in infants) are rare.
Since 1965, post-YF vaccination encephalitis has been reported in one U.S.
MOSF associated with 17D-derived YF vaccination was not reported before 1996.
The frequency of febrile MOSF cases reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) after vaccination with 17D-204 YF vaccine in the United States during 1990--1998 is approximately one in 400,000 distributed doses (7).
An estimated 200,000 cases of YF occur each year in South America and Africa (5).
As a result, YF is an important vaccine-preventable disease among travelers to areas where YF occurs on these continents.
In 1996 and 1999, two U.S.
and two European unvaccinated travelers to areas where YF is endemic died of YF viral infection (1,8).
The risk for YF in unvaccinated travelers probably is increasing because potential YF transmission zones are expanding to include urban areas with large populations of susceptible humans and abundant competent mosquito vectors.
Vaccination is the most effective preventive measure against YF, a disease that has no specific treatment and may cause death in 20% of patients (5).
Despite a rare, possibly causal relation between YF vaccination and MOSF, YF vaccination of persons traveling in areas where YF transmission occurs should continue as currently recommended, at least until more definitive and complete data are available and analyzed by the ACIP working group.
However, health-care providers should provide YF vaccine only to persons planning to travel to areas reporting YF activity or areas in the YF endemic zone.
A causal association between MOSF and 17DD YF vaccination is supported by histopathologic studies for two cases.
Because of a lack of tissue specimens from most U.S.
cases (recipients of 17D-204 YF vaccine), no definitive histopathologic support for a causal relationship exists.
However, the temporal association with recent receipt of YF vaccine and the similarity of the clinical presentations in all four U.S.
cases suggest the possibility of a causal association.
The pathophysiologic mechanisms causing MOSF may differ among recipients of 17DD and 17D-204 YF vaccine.
To clearly define a causal association between 17D-204 and MOSF, more tissue histopathology and molecular virologic studies of specimens from 17D-204 YF vaccinees with MOSF are needed.
To refine estimates of the risk for MOSF following YF vaccination, enhanced surveillance is essential.
Through VAERS, the Food and Drug Administration and CDC receive reports of adverse effects potentially related to YF vaccine and other vaccines.
Box 1100, Rockville, Md 20849-1100), or e-mail 
CDC will conduct virologic and immunohistochemical studies of these specimens to clarify the role of the 17D-204 YF vaccine strain in the patient's illness.
References* Martin M, Tsai TF, Cropp B, et al.
Fever and multi-system organ failure associated with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccination: a report of four cases.
Lancet 2001;358:98--104.
Vasconcelos PFC, Luna EJ, Galler R, et al.
Serious adverse events associated with yellow fever 17DD vaccine in Brazil: a report of two cases.
Lancet 2001;358:91--7.
Chan RC, Penney DJ, Little D, Carter IW, Roberts JA, Rawlinson WD.
Hepatitis and death following vaccination with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccine.
Lancet 2001;358:121--2.
Yellow fever vaccine recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP).
MMWR 1990;39(no.
Yellow fever.
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, eds.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: W.B.
Saunders, 1999.
Kelso JM, Mootrey GT, Tsai TF.
Anaphylaxis from yellow fever vaccine.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1999;4:698--701.
Martin M, Weld LH, Tsai TF, et al.
Advanced age as a risk factor for illness temporally associated with yellow fever vaccination.
Emerg Infect Dis 2001(in press).
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Venezuela, 1999.
MMWR 2000;49:303--5.
Jennings AD, Whitby JE, Minor PD, Barrett AD.
Comparison of the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of the structural protein genes of the yellow fever 17DD vaccine strain from Senegal with those of other yellow fever vaccine viruses.
Vaccine 1993;11:679--81.
Use the search function to find specific articles.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly November 8, 2002 / 51(44);989-993 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Adverse Events Associated with 17D-Derived Yellow Fever Vaccination --- United States, 2001--2002 In June 2001, seven cases of yellow fever vaccine--associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD) (previously called multiple organ system failure) in recipients of 17D-derived yellow fever vaccine (YEL) were reported to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) (1--3).
ACIP reviewed the cases, recommended enhanced surveillance for adverse events, and updated the ACIP statement on YEL (4).
This report summarizes the preliminary surveillance findings, including two new suspected cases of YEL-AVD and four suspected cases of YEL-associated neurotropic disease (YEL-AND) (previously called postvaccinal encephalitis).
Although YEL remains essential for travelers to areas in which yellow fever (YF) is endemic (Figure), these findings underscore the need for continued enhanced surveillance and timely clinical assessment of YEL-associated disease.
The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) receives reports of adverse events following licensed vaccine administration in the United States (5).
During June 20, 2001--August 31, 2002, a total of 117 reports of adverse events following YEL administration were reported compared with 104 reports during a comparable period in 2000--2001.
Of the 117 reports, six cases of persons with severe adverse events consistent with YEL-AND or YEL-AVD were reported.
All six patients were vaccinated in the United States with 17D-derived YEL, required hospitalization, and recovered without sequelae.
The first case was reported initially as nonserious in May 2001 but was reclassified after the enhanced surveillance system was in place.
Case Reports Case 1.
On April 27, 2001, a man aged 25 years received YEL and influenza and poliovirus vaccines in preparation for travel to North Africa, Israel, Turkey, and Ecuador.
One day after vaccination, he had lymphadenopathy, headache, and malaise; 2 days later, he reported nausea, diarrhea, diaphoresis, and fever.
Nine days after vaccination, he was hospitalized with a fulminant illness characterized by fever of 101.6º F (38.7º C) and acute hepatic and renal failure (Table).
The next day, he had hypotension and respiratory failure requiring resuscitation, vasopressors, dialysis, and mechanical ventilation.
No bacterial pathogens were identified from urine, blood, or stool specimens.
A toxicology screen was negative.
After 24 days of hospitalization, he recovered and was discharged.
No acute-phase serum or tissue samples for viral isolation or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were obtained.
Convalescent-phase serum samples collected 351 days after vaccination demonstrated a YF-neutralizing antibody titer of 1:640.
On March 28, 2002, a man aged 70 years received YEL in preparation for travel to Venezuela.
He had fever, dyspnea, myalgia, and malaise 5 days after vaccination; 3 days later, he was hospitalized because of fever, thrombocytopenia, and elevated hepatocellular enzymes, bilirubin, and creatinine (Table).
He subsequently became hypotensive and was intubated for respiratory failure.
Hyponatremia developed and dialysis was required for renal failure.
Blood and urine cultures were negative for bacteria, fungi, and viruses.
Serum collected on hospital days 21, 25, and 33 and pleural fluid collected on day 26 were negative by real-time, quantitative PCR (TaqMan®) with consensus flavivirus primers and viral culture.
Serum collected on hospital day 26 had a neutralizing antibody titer of 1:1,280.
After a 41-day hospitalization, he recovered and was discharged.
On September 17, 2001, a man aged 36 years received YEL in preparation for travel to Brazil.
He had diaphoresis, fever of 102.2º F (39.0º C), rigors, and headache 13 days after vaccination; 16 days after vaccination, he lost consciousness and was hospitalized with severe headache and fever of 106.0º F (41.1º C) (Table).
Examination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed 406 white blood cells per mm3 (WBC/mm3) (predominantly lymphocytes) and elevated protein.
Blood, urine, and CSF cultures were negative for bacteria, fungi, and viruses.
YF-specific IgM-capture ELISA (MAC-ELISA) of CSF was strongly positive (Table).
CSF viral testing by TaqMan® and viral culture was negative.
Additional MAC-ELISA results were negative for Eastern equine encephalitis, St.
Louis encephalitis, West Nile encephalitis, and La Crosse encephalitis viruses.
After a 5-day hospitalization, he recovered and was discharged.
On October 4, 2001, a man aged 71 years received YEL and typhoid and hepatitis A vaccines in preparation for travel to Guatemala.
He had fever and malaise 6 days later; 13 days after vaccination, he became confused, had expressive aphasia, and was hospitalized with fever of 101.1º F (38.4º C).
He had leukocytosis but normal hepatocellular enzymes.
CSF had 137 WBC/mm3 and elevated protein.
CSF YF-specific IgM testing by MAC-ELISA was positive (Table); viral testing by TaqMan® and viral culture was negative.
CSF was negative for herpes viruses, flaviviruses, and enteroviruses.
After a 7-day hospitalization, he recovered and was discharged.
On February 7, 2002, a man aged 41 years received YEL and hepatitis A vaccine in preparation for travel to Venezuela.
Six days after vaccination, he had low-grade fever, headache, and myalgia, which worsened over several days; 16 days after vaccination, he was hospitalized with fever of 104.0º F (40.0º C), headache, and rigors.
CSF had 63 WBC/mm3 (predominantly mononuclear) and elevated protein.
Hepatocellular enzymes were normal (Table).
Bacterial and fungal cultures of blood and CSF and CSF cryptococcal antigen were negative.
CSF enteroviral testing and Leptospira serology were negative.
CSF YF-specific IgM testing by MAC-ELISA was strongly positive (Table); viral testing by TaqMan® and viral culture was negative.
After 5 days, he recovered and was discharged.
On May 17, 2002, a boy aged 16 years received YEL in preparation for travel to South America; 23 days after vaccination, he had left-arm numbness, inability to speak, loss of right-side fine motor control, expressive aphasia, and severe dysarthria.
Magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse, bilateral, white-matter disease; CSF examination was normal.
MAC-ELISA YF-specific IgM tests on CSF collected 26 days after vaccination were strongly positive (Table); CSF tests by TaqMan® with consensus flavivirus primers and viral cell culture were negative.
Tests for Rocky Mountain spotted fever, herpes simplex, multiple sclerosis, lupus, autoimmune diseases, and metabolic enzyme deficiencies were negative.
Reverse-transcriptase PCR with primers for Colorado tick fever was negative; serum collected 4 months after illness onset did not contain neutralizing antibodies for that virus.
No bacteria or fungi were cultured from CSF.
The patient was afebrile throughout his illness and was discharged after a 3-day hospitalization.
Reported by: S Levy, MD, Saint Agnes Medical Center, Fresno, California.
K Mullane, DO, Loyola Univ Medical Center, Maywood, Illinois.
M Miller, MD, Albany Medical College; S Siva, MD, Albany Medical Center Hospital, Albany, New York.
D Barnes, MD, Southview Medical Group, Birmingham, Alabama.
P Dhaliwal, MD, Brandon Regional Hospital, Brandon, Florida.
SC Tiwari, MD, St.
Dominic-Jackson Memorial Hospital, Jackson, Mississippi.
KG Julian, MD, Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Epidemiology and Surveillance Div, National Immunization Program; Div of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases; Div of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Infectious Diseases; EIS Officer, CDC.
Editorial Note: This report documents two probable new cases of 17D-derived YEL-AVD and four probable new cases of 17D-derived YEL-AND in the United States.
YEL-AND has long been recognized as a vaccine-associated adverse event, but incidence decreased substantially with implementation of the seed-lot standardization process in 1945.
Since then, 27 cases of YEL-AND, including seven U.S.
cases, have been reported worldwide (1,6).
YEL-AVD was recently recognized; since 1996, 12 cases of YEL-AVD, including six U.S.
cases, have been reported worldwide (1--4).
This report describes the first U.S.
Similar to the YEL-AVD cases reported previously, onset of symptoms occurred 1--6 days after vaccination (1).
Two of the four persons with YEL-AND became ill 13--23 days after vaccination.
YF is a flavivirus that causes a febrile illness in humans that can progress to hepatic and renal failure and hemorrhage caused by platelet and clotting abnormalities.
In primates and mice, YF also can cause meningo-encephalitis (6).
YEL is a live virus preparation containing 17D vaccine strain made by serial passage of wild type YF virus to attenuate neurotropic and viscerotropic properties while preserving immunogenicity (4).
Sequencing evidence suggest that YEL-AVD and YEL-AND might represent an aberrant host response to 17D vaccine strain rather than a reversion of vaccine virus to wild type (1,3).
The cases of neurologic disease had evidence that 17D-derived YEL was the likely cause of illness.
The four patients had onset of illness soon after YEL was administered and had high levels of YF-specific IgM antibody in CSF; no other causes of neurologic disease were identified.
However, viral isolation of YEL-associated virus in these patients was either negative or not performed because of inadequate samples.
The presence of IgM antibody in CSF might be caused by serum antibody from recent vaccination crossing an inflamed blood-brain barrier; however, this is unlikely because of the large size of IgM.
The two patients with visceral involvement also had illness associated temporally with YEL, had clinical features similar to other reported cases of YEL-AVD (1--3), and had extensive diagnostic testing, excluding other infectious and noninfectious etiologies.
However, tissue samples were not available for testing because both patients survived despite multiple organ system failure.
Enhanced surveillance was useful in identifying additional suspect cases of YEL-AVD and YEL-AND.
These findings indicate the need for continued enhanced surveillance, timely clinical assessment, and a refined risk estimate for severe adverse events following receipt of YEL.
However, enhanced VAERS surveillance efforts alone might not detect all serious adverse events after receipt of YEL (7).
VAERS report forms are available online at  or by telephone, 800-822-7967.
Completed forms can be submitted online; by fax, 877-721-0366; or by mail, P.O.
Box 1100, Rockville, MD 20849-1100.
Supplemental clinical information and information about the availability of clinical, autopsy, or residual vaccine specimens may be requested.
CDC will conduct virologic and immunohistochemical studies of these specimens.
Additional information is available from CDC at  and  and by telephone, 970-221-6400 and 404-498-1600.
YF has caused recent deaths in unvaccinated U.S.
and European travelers to endemic areas of sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America (8--10).
To mitigate the risk for YEL-associated disease, health-care providers should provide YEL only to persons planning to travel to areas reporting ongoing YF activity or with a history of endemic transmission.
References Martin M, Tsai TF, Cropp B, et al.
Fever and multisystem organ failure associated with 17D-204 yellow fever: a report of four cases.
Lancet 2001;358:98--104.
Chan RC, Penney DJ, Little D, Carter IW, Roberts JA, Rowlinson WD.
Hepatitis and death following vaccination with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccine.
Lancet 2001;358:121--2.
Vasconcelos PF, Luna EJ, Galler R, et al.
Serious adverse events associated with yellow fever 17D vaccine in Brazil: a report of two cases.
Lancet 2001;358:91--7.
Yellow fever vaccine: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), 2002.
MMWR 2002;51(No.
Chen RT, Rastogi SL, Mullen JR, et al.
The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), 1991--1994.
Vaccine 1994;12:542--50.
Yellow fever.
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, eds.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: W.B.
Saunders, 1999:815--79.
Rosenthal S, Chen R.
The reporting sensitivities of two passive surveillance systems for vaccine adverse events.
Am J Public Health 1995;85:1706--9.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Amazonas, Brazil, 2002.
MMWR 2002;51:324--5.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Venezuela, 1999.
MMWR 2000;49:303--5.
McFarland JM, Baddour LM, Nelson JE, et al.
Imported yellow fever in a United States citizen.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:1143--7.
Table Return to top.
Figure Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Sun Exposure in Travelers Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: David Fivenson and Scott A.
Norton Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should recommend that international travelers use sunscreen, wear protective clothing, and follow safety practices to prevent exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
Introduction International travelers who engage in outdoor activities are often exposed to more ultraviolet (UV) radiation (UVR) than usual, especially if their travels take them to sunnier locations, lower latitudes, or higher elevations.
Even winter activities (e.g., snow skiing) can result in significant UVR exposure.
Short bursts of high-intensity UVR (e.g., infrequent beach vacations), as well as frequent, prolonged, cumulative UVR exposure, can cause acute effects (e.g., sunburn and phototoxic medication reactions) and delayed effects from chronic exposure (e.g., sun damage, premature aging, cataracts, skin cancers).
Risk factors Time of year, time of day, latitude, altitude, geographic location, and meteorological conditions all influence the amount of UVR that reaches any particular area of the earth's surface.
Human behavior (attire, activities, time of day when outdoors, and sun-protective measures) determines how much UVR reaches a person's skin or eyes.
Most UVR reaches the earth's surface during summer months.
Ultraviolet B (UVB), which is more carcinogenic than ultraviolet A (UVA), is most intense during mid-day (10 a.m.
to 4 p.m.), at higher elevations, and as one gets closer to the equator.
Features on the Earth's surface (such as snow, water, and sand) can reflect UVR, thereby increasing potential UVB exposure.
Although UVA is less carcinogenic than UVB, UVA occurs at high intensity throughout daylight hours.
UVA causes more acute photosensitivity reactions than UVB, and it contributes more to premature aging.
Ultraviolet index The U.S.
National Weather Service calculates and publishes a daily ultraviolet index (UVI) for most U.S.
locations .
The UVI is calculated using computer models that couple solar energy delivered at ground level with the ozone forecast.
This value is further adjusted for elevation, atmospheric aerosol properties, and cloud conditions.
The globally accepted UVI scale uses a 0–11+ scoring system.
The UVI ranges from 0 (at night or under a smoke-filled sky) to 11+ (in the tropics, at high elevation, with no cloud cover).
Higher UVIs indicate greater risks for skin- and eye-damaging UVR.
Global data for many sites outside the United States are available on the World Health Organization (WHO ) website, where one can download a smartphone application that gives the UVI for global locations.
Underlying medical conditions Certain medical conditions increase a person's risk of experiencing the adverse effects of UV exposure.
For example, people with autoimmune connective tissue diseases (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus) have heightened photosensitivity.
Combinations of immunosuppressive drugs, such as those used by solid-organ transplant recipients, are at much greater risk for UVB-induced skin cancers.
Counsel these patients on how to protect themselves, especially during hours of maximal exposure.
Photosensitizing medications Many medications, including several prescribed specifically for travelers, can lead to photosensitivity reactions.
Examples include: Antibiotics, including doxycycline (and other tetracyclines to a lesser degree), fluoroquinolones, sulfonamides Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), especially ibuprofen, ketoprofen, naproxen, piroxicam Many types of cancer therapies (e.g., chemotherapeutic agents, radiation therapy, some immunomodulators) can be sun sensitizers during treatment, and effects can linger even after completion of therapy.
Other common medications (e.g., furosemide, methotrexate, sulfonylureas, thiazide diuretics, retinoids).
Consequences Sunburn Sunburn is a common and self-limited condition.
It is also preventable.
Both UVA and UVB can cause sunburns, which is why people should use broad-spectrum sunscreens that protect from both types of UVR.
Clinical features of sunburn vary from mild pink to painful red skin with edema and blisters on exposed surfaces.
Systemic symptoms can include headache, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, or muscle aches.
Sunburn management consists of symptomatic pain relief.
People rarely notice the developing sunburn while the burn is occurring.
Discomfort begins several hours to a day later and can be exquisitely painful.
First-line supportive care consists of cool baths or showers and applying wet compresses and bland topical emollients (e.g., petrolatum, zinc oxide).
Refrigerating topical emollients before application can provide added relief.
Aloe vera is commonly used as a sunburn remedy, but studies assessing its benefit are equivocal.
In general, intact blisters should not be ruptured intentionally.
However, if the blisters are tense or painful, then one may drain them in a sterile manner.
Gently clean the skin with soap and water or with alcohol-based hand sanitizer, then use a heat-sterilized needle to nick the edge of the blister in one or two places.
Use sterile gauze (or a clean paper towel) to absorb the draining blister fluid.
Leave the blister roof intact to serve as a sterile dressing; it is more protective than standard adhesive bandages.
If a dressing is applied over the blister, it should be loose so that it does not abrade and remove the blister roof.
Topical corticosteroids (e.g., hydrocortisone 1% cream or ointment) or diclofenac gel can decrease pain and inflammation.
People with a sunburn typically benefit from rest in a cool setting, extra fluids, and oral pain relievers (e.g., acetaminophen, ibuprofen, naproxen).
Systemic steroids do not improve symptoms or hasten recovery.
Patients with extensive blisters might require hospitalization for fluid replacement (oral or intravenous) and pain control.
Treat these patients the same way as patients with thermal burns: maintain clean skin with gentle cleansing, then cover the sunburned areas liberally with emollients.
As described above, tense or painful blisters can be drained in a locally sterile manner, but a blister roof should remain intact to serve as a sterile dressing.
Sun damage and skin cancer High-intensity or chronic exposure to UVR (particularly UVA) causes coarse and fine wrinkling of the skin; permanent loss of skin elasticity; blotchy hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation; fine telangiectasias; and xerosis.
Many fair-skinned people develop solar lentigines (brown macules with irregular borders that look like large freckles).
The best way to avoid these skin changes is to take simple steps to avoid sun overexposure and sunburn.
WHO characterizes UVR as a carcinogen that has the potential to induce skin cancers via DNA damage.
Skin cancers are the most common malignancies in the United States, and basal and squamous cell carcinomas (BCCs and SCCs) are closely linked to UV exposure.
The National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health predicts that in 2023, 3.6 million BCCs and 1.8 million SCCs will be diagnosed in the United States.
The diagnosis of any skin cancer should be made on biopsied tissue, not on clinical features alone.
BCCs commonly appear on sun-exposed areas, typically manifesting as pearly, red papules surrounded by tiny blood vessels (telangiectasias).
BCCs often bleed, ulcerate, expand laterally, or grow into nodules.
BCCs rarely metastasize and are generally cured with routine excision or other local treatments.
SCCs commonly present as scaly or rough-surfaced papules or plaques on sun-exposed areas.
Advanced or long-standing SCCs are 10 times more likely to metastasize than BCCs.
Solid-organ transplant patients who are on immunosuppressive therapy and patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia have an increased risk for SCCs.
Melanoma is less common than BCC or SCC, but it is a potentially much more serious form of skin cancer, and its incidence is increasing among most populations.
Risk factors for melanoma include fair skin, genetic susceptibility, and a history of blistering sunburns before the age of 18.
Melanomas have a variety of clinical presentations, the most common of which is an irregularly bordered, darkly pigmented, flat spot or raised papule on the skin that changes its size, shape, or both over time (Box 3.1.1).
When a skin lesion raises clinical suspicion for melanoma, the patient should be referred for prompt evaluation and possible biopsy.
Of the various types of skin cancer, melanoma has the greatest morbidity and mortality; the National Cancer Institute estimates that in 2023, there will be approximately 98,000 new cases of cutaneous melanoma in the United States, and approximately 8,000 people will die from this cancer.
Early detection and treatment (simple excision with clear margins) lead to complete recovery in most cases.
Depending on the tumor stage, patients might need additional surgery; evaluation for metastasis and other forms of occult spread; treatment with chemotherapeutic or biological agents; and regular monitoring.
Box 3.1.1 What does melanoma look like?
National Institutes of Health's (NIH's) National Cancer Institute offers these clues: Often the first sign of melanoma is a change in the shape, color, size, or feel of an existing mole.
However, melanoma may also appear as a new mole.
People should tell their doctor if they notice any changes in the skin.
The only way to diagnose melanoma is to remove tissue and check it for cancer cells by skin biopsy.
Thinking of "ABCDE" can help you remember what to look for: Asymmetry: The shape of one half does not match the other half.
Border that is irregular: The edges are ragged, notched, or blurred in outline.
Pigment may spread into the surrounding skin.
Color that is uneven: Shades of black, brown, and tan may be present.
Areas of white, gray, red, pink, or blue may also be seen.
Diameter: There is a change in size, usually an increase.
Melanomas can be tiny, but most are larger than the size of a pea (larger than 6 millimeters or about 1/4 inch).
Evolving: The mole has changed over the past few weeks or months.
Melanomas can vary greatly in how they look.
Many show all of the ABCDE features.
However, some may show changes or abnormal areas in only one or two of the ABCDE features.
Additional information from NIH is available .
Other photosensitivity disorders Increased exposure to sunlight, particularly UVA, can exacerbate existing skin conditions and can cause or unmask photosensitivity disorders, such as autoimmune connective tissue diseases (e.g., dermatomyositis or systemic lupus erythematosus), phototoxic medication reactions, polymorphous light eruption, porphyrias, and solar urticaria.
A person experiencing prolonged or severe symptoms after sun exposure (e.g., arthralgias, fever, pruritus, swelling) should seek medical evaluation.
Photo-onycholysis Photo-onycholysis is a separation or lifting of the nail plate from the nail bed in people taking an oral photosensitizing agent, usually a medication, in association with intense sun exposure.
The most common setting is someone taking doxycycline for malaria prophylaxis.
Phytophotodermatitis Phytophotodermatitis is a noninfectious condition that results from action of UVA radiation on photosensitizing compounds (furocoumarins) that naturally occur in several plant families, in particular the citrus family (Rutaceae).
In the tropics, the most common source is the photosensitizing juice of certain types of limes, often called Persian, wild, or key limes.
A common scenario arises when a traveler squeezes fresh lime juice onto a food or beverage and, within a day or two, develops a painful blistering rash on skin where the lime juice dripped or spritzed.
Similarly, many fragrant products, such as perfumes and essential oils, often contain citrus oils, such as bergamot, that can induce rashes after sun exposure.
In northern temperate regions, an increasingly common source is giant hogweed (Heracleum mentagazzium).
This weedy, quick-growing plant is native to Southwest Asia but is now widely invasive across central and northern Europe, the northern half of the United States, and Canada.
It grows vigorously, especially in open meadows, and often exceeds 8 ft in height.
The interaction of UV light and the furocoumarins causes an exaggerated sunburn-like response that creates painful blisters where the photosensitizing juice or sap is on the skin.
As the blisters heal, they are replaced by distinctive linear or drop-like hyperpigmented brown patches that can persist on the skin for weeks or months.
Prevention Travelers can take steps to avoid overexposure to UVR (Box 3.1.2).
To encourage safe sun behaviors, clinicians can remind travelers that UVB radiation is maximal during midday, UV exposure still occurs in cooler weather and on overcast days, and UVR increases with travel to lower latitudes (closer to the equator) and higher elevations.
Box 3.1.2 Recommendations for safer sun exposure for travelers Avoid direct sun exposure between 10 a.m.
when ultraviolet (UV) rays are strongest.
When going outside, choose shady areas, such as the full shade provided by natural or man-made fixed objects.
Trees provide varying degrees of sun protection depending on the density of the foliage.
Consider using portable shade shelters (e.g., awnings, canopies, umbrellas and parasols, beach tents, similar shade structures).
Wear a hat with a circumferential brim ≥3 inches (approximately 75 mm) wide that shades the face, neck, and ears.
Do not rely on standard baseball caps.
Consider wearing sun-specific caps that include ear and neck flaps, many of which are made of UPF fabrics.
Wear sunglasses rated to protect eyes from both UVA and UVB radiation.
Remember that UV light reflected off water, snow, or sand can increase total UV radiation received.
Choose a broad-spectrum sunscreen that has a sun protection factor (SPF) ≥30 and a label that says that the product protects from both UVA and UVB.
Apply (do not rub) your sunscreen daily, at least 15 minutes before going outside (to allow absorption in to the skin's outermost layer).
Use enough sunscreen, typically ≥1 fluid ounce (equivalent to 2 U.S.
tablespoons or 1 shot glass) to adequately cover exposed areas (see "Applying Sunscreen" section in this chapter).
Reapply sunscreen every 2–4 hours, more frequently when sweating or after being in water.
Be sure to apply sunscreen to commonly missed areas (e.g., ears, tops of the feet).
Apply a lip balm with SPF ≥30.
Remember that many lip balms are simply petrolatum-based moisturizers for chapped lips.
Look specifically for products labeled as SPF 30 or more.
The delicate skin of human lips rarely has any naturally protective melanin pigment.
Source: Adapted from the American Academy of Dermatology Association's Practice Safe Sun guidelines .
Sun avoidance If possible, travelers can decrease UV exposure by avoiding exposure to direct sunlight during peak hours, between 10 a.m.
Travelers can reduce UV exposure by seeking shade under (or alongside) trees, umbrellas, or other natural or manmade structures.
People should bear in mind that UV rays can be reflected by a variety of surfaces, including snow, water, and sand.
Studies show that concomitant use of shade and sunscreen will protect people from excessive UVR far more effectively than reliance on a single method.
Sunscreens Sunscreens are topical preparations containing substances that reflect or absorb light in the UV wavelengths, thereby reducing the amount of UVR that reaches the skin.
Two types of ingredients are used in sunscreens to protect the skin from excessive UVR.
These ingredients, known as UV filtering agents, fall into two categories: chemical (sometimes referred to as organic) UV filters; and physical (sometimes referred to as mineral or inorganic) UV filters.
Commercial sunscreen products can contain chemical or physical filters, or both, and often include more than one of each type.
In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates UV filtering agents and commercial sunscreens.
Regulatory agencies in other countries often permit the use of UV filters not approved in the United States.
See Box 3.1.3 for recommendations on choosing a sunscreen approved for sale in the United States.
Additional UV filtering agents are available in commercial sunscreens made in different countries.
Box 3.1.4 provides additional information on sunscreens available outside the United States.
Box 3.1.3 Choosing a sunscreen The most effective sunscreens are broad-spectrum, combining agents capable of filtering (either by absorbing or reflecting) both ultraviolet A and B (UVA and UVB) radiation.
The American Academy of Dermatology Practice Safe Sun guidelines recommend using products with a sun protection factor (SPF) ≥30.
The FDA's approval process for UV filters is under review and will most likely begin with systematic human toxicity testing of UV filters that are currently approved in the United States before testing UV filters used elsewhere in the world.
Box 3.1.4 Choosing a sunscreen outside the United States Sunscreens sold outside the United States contain a wider variety of chemical UV filters.
In general, these filters have been approved by a regulatory agency with regional or country-wide jurisdiction, such as the European Union Commission for Public Health.
These products will likely remain unavailable in the United States until they complete the FDA approval process for UV filters.
The UV filters listed below have lower reported environmental toxicity, but none have yet come up for review before the FDA.
In Europe, Japan, and Australia, commonly available chemical UV filters in sunscreens include the following: Mexoryl XL (drometrizole trisiloxane) Neo Heliopan AP (bisdisulizole disodium) Neo Heliopan E1000 (amiloxate) Eusolex 6300 (enzacamene, 4-MBC) Tinsorb A2B (tris-biphenyl triazine) Tinsorb M (bisoctrizole) Tinsorb S (bemotrizinol) Parasol SLX (polysilicone-15) Uvasorb HEB (iscotrizinol) Uvinul A + (diethylamino, hydroxybenzoyl hexyl benzoate) Uvinul T 150 (octyl triazone) Uvinul P25 (ethoxylated ethyl-4-aminobenzoate) Mexoryl 400 (methylpropylamino cyclohexenylidene ethoxyethylcyanoacetate) TriAsorB (phenylene bis-diphenyltriazine) BP-5 (benzophenone-5) In South America, commonly available chemical UV filters in sunscreens include the following: Mexoryl SL (benzylidene camphor sulfonic acid) Mexoryl SO (camphor benzalkonium) Mexoryl SW (polyacryamidomethylbenzylidene camphor) PEG-25 PABA (ethoxylated ethyl-4-aminobenzoate) Choosing a sunscreen In this section, we use the term "UV filter" to mean the specific agent or molecule that provides protection from UV radiation.
We use "commercial sunscreen" to mean the branded product that one buys and applies to one's skin.
People use many criteria when selecting a commercial sunscreen, but in practical terms, the best sunscreens are those that people will apply properly and regularly.
UV filters are considered either chemical filters or physical filters.
Most commercial sunscreens contain two or more UV filters.
These can be chemical or physical or a mix of both types of UV filters.
Chemical UV filters penetrate the upper layers of the epidermis, where they protect by "capturing" (or absorbing) UV light.
Physical UV filters remain on the epidermal surface to reflect (or scatter and bounce back) UVR.
See Box 3.1.3 for additional details on choosing sunscreens available in the United States.
Sun protection factor A product's sun protection factor (SPF) is a ratio of the amount of UVB radiation required to cause a sunburn on skin protected by a topical sunscreen product vs the amount of UVB radiation required to cause a sunburn on unprotected skin.
SPF measures protection from UVB only, not UVA.
As most people know: the higher the SPF, the greater the degree of protection from UVB and from sunburn.
The FDA uses a strict protocol to determine a product's SPF.
In theory, an SPF of 30 means that only 1/30th of the UVB reaches the skin—or that a person can remain in the sun 30 times as long—when the sunscreen is applied.
To effectively attain the desired SPF, however, a person must start by applying an adequate amount of sunscreen, avoid rinsing or rubbing (this causes uneven coating of skin and product accumulating in wrinkles, folds, and other skin creases) or sweating it off, and reapply it every 2 hours.
From a mathematical perspective, sunscreens rated as SPF 30 block 97% of UVB, those rated as SPF 50 block 98%, and those rated as SPF 100 block 99%.
The terminology that the FDA uses to describe sunscreens is outlined in Box 3.1.5.
Box 3.1.5 Sunscreen terminology from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Sun protection factor (SPF): A measure of how much solar energy (UVB radiation) is required to produce a sunburn on skin that is protected by a sunscreen relative to the amount of UVB radiation required to produce a sunburn on unprotected skin.
As the SPF value increases, sunburn protection increases.
Broad spectrum: The FDA permits a sunscreen to be labeled as "broad spectrum" if it provides adequate protection from both UVA and UVB radiation and has an SPF 15 or above.
Water-resistant: The FDA allows claims of water resistance on a sunscreen's label if the product maintains its original rated SPF for 40 minutes or 80 minutes while swimming or sweating, based on standard testing.
Sunscreens that do not meet this standard must have a label instructing consumers to use a water-resistant sunscreen when swimming or sweating.
The FDA does not define, nor does it use, the following terms: baby-safe, reef-safe, anti-aging, sport, kid-friendly, dermatologist-tested, all-natural, sweat-proof, or waterproof (see Box 3.1.3).
Chemical (organic) UV filters Sunscreens with chemical UV filters are absorbed into the outer layers of the skin and work like a sponge to absorb UV energy.
The chemical UV filters currently approved for use in the United States vs Europe, Japan, and Australia are listed in the table in Box 3.1.4.
Products containing chemical UV filters can be easier to apply and are less likely to leave a white residue than physical UV filters.
People with naturally dark skin may avoid certain sunscreens because they leave a pale or ashy appearance; however, people with darker skin tones also need protection against the short- and long-term effects of UVR described above.
Do not misinterpret the term "organic" when applied to sunscreens.
Chemical UV filters are also called "organic filters" because they are carbon-based organic molecules, not because they have any of the purportedly natural benefits that are associated with the colloquial use of this word.
In fact, organic sunscreens pose more potential risks to individuals and the environment than inorganic (or physical) sunscreens, which are discussed in the next section.
Box 3.1.6 provides information on some possible health risks associated with using chemical UV filters.
Box 3.1.6 Human risks associated with sunscreen use Chemical (Organic) Ultraviolet (UV) Filters Contact dermatitis, both allergic and irritant.
Sun sensitivity (associated with avobenzone, cinoxate, octocrylene).
Several studies show that chemical UV filters can be absorbed across the skin and reach detectable levels in human blood and tissues.
Chemical UV filters have been detected in urine, blood, and breast milk.
Several compounds, notably oxybenzone, are possible endocrine disruptors, which means they may interfere with a person's natural hormones doing their normal bodily functions.
The effects, if any, that chemical UV filters have on hormones (such as estrogen, testosterone, and thyroid hormones) in humans, marine and aquatic organisms, or ecosystems are unclear.
Experimental animal studies using high concentrations of chemical UV filters have reported significant changes in thyroid and sex hormones and potential effects on fertility and fetal development.
In the past decade, several publications reported potential carcinogenicity of commercial sunscreens.
The largest analysis found that poor manufacturing practices had allowed carcinogenic contaminants (namely benzene and benzophenone) to taint several commercial products.
That particular study, however, did not implicate UV filters as intrinsically carcinogenic.
The contaminated commercial sunscreens were removed from the market and the manufacturing facilities corrected their production problems.
Nevertheless, some studies have implicated chemical UV filters as intrinsically carcinogenic.
The positions of the FDA and the European Commission, however, differ on that point based on allowable concentrations of the particular chemical filters.
It is important to emphasize that physical or mineral UV filters are not carcinogenic.
Physical (Mineral or Inorganic) UV Filters Physical UV filters (zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) rarely cause skin irritation.
People should avoid using spray formulations that contain these UV filters because inhaling metallic nanoparticles can be harmful to the lungs.
Physical UV filters have never been shown to be carcinogenic.
Physical (mineral or inorganic) UV filters Physical UV filters, often called mineral or inorganic filters, reflect both UVA and UVB from the skin's surface.
Worldwide, only two products are used as physical filters: zinc oxide and titanium dioxide.
These metallic oxides are pulverized into microparticle or nanoparticle size and then are mixed with a vehicle or emollient that permits them to be applied smoothly to the skin.
Sunscreens might contain none, one, or both physical agents.
Currently, available commercial sunscreen products are made with a combination of both physical and chemical UV filters.
Physical sunscreens pose very little risk of causing allergic or irritant contact dermatitis (Box 3.1.6).
They can, however, leave a residual white film or hue on the skin.
Nevertheless, current products are cosmetically more acceptable than the thick, opaque pastes commonly used in the late 20th century.
In recent years, tinted sunscreens have become available and they are cosmetically more acceptable to people with darker skin complexions.
These products usually contain micro-pulverized iron oxide or pigmentary titanium dioxide.
Iron oxide has additional benefits in that it filters (or blocks) certain wavelengths of visible light that contribute to photoaging, melasma, and other conditions marked by blotchy hyperpigmentation.
Physical filters do not have the adverse environmental effects associated with many chemical UV filters (Box 3.1.7 and Figure 3.1.1).
Accordingly, many people decide to buy only those commercial sunscreens that contain physical UV filters alone (and entirely omit chemical filters).
Indeed, some tropical beach locations have adopted environmental protection policies that prohibit sunscreens with chemical UV filters.
Locations with such policies include Aruba, Bonaire, parts of Mexico, Palau, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands.
In 2018, Hawaii passed a law banning sunscreens containing octinoxate and oxybenzone due to their potential toxic effects on coral and other marine life.
Box 3.1.7 Environmental risks associated with sunscreen use Among the most concerning topics about sunscreens is that UV filters might harm marine ecosystems, particularly coral reefs (Figure 3.1.1).
This is a complex and unresolved issue because coral is damaged by a variety of environmental changes, such as pollution, loss of biodiversity, and freshwater run-off.
Most concerning is ocean water's warming trend, which is accelerating due to global climate change.
Laboratory evidence suggests that high concentrations of certain chemical UV filters damage the symbiotic algae, known as zooxanthellae, that live within the live tips of coral.
The demise of zooxanthellae is observed as a loss of color, a phenomenon known as "coral bleaching." Repeated cycles of bleaching can kill living corals, which are the keystone species of many marine ecosystems.
Other marine and aquatic (freshwater) organisms are also being studied for possible effects caused by chemical sunscreens.
Overall, less evidence shows that physical UV filters (zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) pose toxicity to humans, animals, or the environment.
Clinicians should suggest that travelers choose sunscreens that are the least harmful to marine ecosystems.
Several U.S.
states and nations have legislation prohibiting the use of chemical (organic) UV filters in favor of products that contain only physical (mineral or inorganic) UV filters (zinc oxide or titanium oxide).
Many ocean resort destinations have banned some chemical UV filters; these include Hawaii, the U.S.
Virgin Islands, Palau, Bonaire, Aruba, Mexico, Brazil, and locations in the European Union.
Once there, one will find only approved commercial sunscreens for sale.
Before bringing sunscreens through customs, travelers should check the regulations in effect at their destination before departure.
Nowadays, most commercial sunscreens contain one or more of both chemical and physical UV filters.
When selecting a commercial sunscreen that contains chemical UV filters, travelers should choose products that contain less than 3% avobenzone, 3% cinoxate, 3% ecamsule, 10% homosalate, 5% octinoxate, 5% octisalate, 5% octocrylene, or 5% oxybenzone.
Information on UV filters and commercial sunscreens is ever-changing.
Independent sources of reliable information for consumers and travelers include Consumer Reports and the Environmental Working Group , both of which regularly review and rate commercial sunscreen products and their component UV filters.
Parents or guardians can protect infants from direct sun exposure, opting for shade and dressing children in lightweight, long-sleeved shirts, long pants, wide-brimmed hats, and sunglasses.
At this age, infants can be protected with covered strollers or perambulators, umbrellas or parasols, and portable shade shelters, rather than by applying sunscreen.
Physical UV filters are less likely to irritate young children's sensitive skin.
Teens may prefer an oil-free sunscreen for the face to help avoid acne flares possibly associated with thicker, oily preparations.
Moreover, teens can be reminded that sun-induced erythema usually makes pimples more noticeable.
Adults can safely use commercial sunscreens marketed for children.
Applying sunscreen Sunscreen guidelines recommend using sunscreens that are labeled as SPF ≥30 and that provide broad-spectrum protection from both UVA and UVB (Box 3.1.4; Box 3.1.5).
The average adult needs 1 fluid ounce (equivalent to 2 U.S.
tablespoons or 1 shot glass full) with each application.
Spread the sunscreen gently and evenly on all exposed skin.
It is not necessary to rub it to the point of vanishing.
Vigorous rubbing causes the sunscreen to accumulate in wrinkles, creases, and other subtle irregularities of the skin's surface.
The converse is true, too: vigorous rubbing effectively removes sunscreen from smooth and subtly raised areas of skin.
For optimal effectiveness, sunscreens that contain chemical UV filters should be applied ≥15 minutes before going outside.
This allows the chemical UV filters to enter the outer skin layers, where they are most effective.
Sunscreens that have only physical UV filters do not require a 15-minute delay.
Sunscreen should be reapplied to all exposed areas every 2–4 hours.
Sunscreens come in many forms, including lotions, creams, oils, sticks, roll-ons, and sprays.
In general, lotion- or cream-based sunscreens can be applied in the most reliable manner.
Stick or roll-on sunscreens are easy to apply, but people often apply these unevenly, leading to skipped areas that sunburn easily.
People who use stick or roll-on sunscreens should gently spread the product after application.
Spray sunscreens Spray sunscreens seem easy to apply, and many young kids prefer sprays to having a parent apply sunscreen all over their bodies.
However, spray sunscreens are not highly recommended.
People generally apply them unevenly, especially under breezy conditions.
Consumer Reports (2020) recommends that one should hold the spray nozzle 1 inch from the skin; spray until the skin glistens uniformly; then gently spread the product to coat the skin evenly, even if the product claims to be "no rub." Some environmental health organizations discourage the use of spray sunscreens because the contents are likely to get into the environment as much as they get onto a person's skin.
Avoid spraying the sunscreen on or near the face, because the particulate components can injure the eyes or damage lung tissue if inhaled.
To use on the face, people should spray their palms and then apply the sunscreen gently and thoroughly.
Similarly, one should avoid using spray products with small children due to the risk of inhaling the aerosolized particles or getting the product in children's eyes.
Instead, adults should spray the product on their own hands and then apply it to the child's skin.
Combination sunscreen and insect repellent Some commercial products combine sunscreen and insect repellent, giving an allure of convenience.
However, there are no reliable data on the shelf-life and retention of SPF efficacy for such products.
Furthermore, combination products like these increase the potential for allergic or irritant reactions.
Also, sunscreens need to be reapplied much more frequently than insect repellents.
Sunscreen should be applied first, allowing it to reach optimal effectiveness.
Next, insect repellent may be applied ≥15 minutes later.
Sunscreens may be reapplied (over the insect repellent) every 2 hours during a day of long-term sun exposure.
Sunscreens and insect repellents are both effective and safe when used separately but, if combined, problems can arise.
Certain sunscreen formulations decrease in their ability to screen out UV radiation when used with N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide (DEET), the most effective and most commonly used repellent.
In some studies, the SPF was reduced by 30% in the combination products.
In addition, sunscreens enhance absorption of DEET into the skin, potentially increasing toxicity—especially in children.
Protective clothing Sun-protective garments (e.g., pants, long-sleeved shirts, hats) protect against UVR, but efficacy depends on the fabric.
Thicker fabrics with tighter or denser weaves (e.g., denim) offer a higher ultraviolet protection factor (UPF).
Like SPF, the UPF of a fabric or material represents the fraction of UVR that penetrates the material.
UPF 50, for example, means only 1/50th of the ambient UVR gets through the fabric; 98% of UVR is blocked.
A UPF rating of 15–24 is considered good, 25–39 is very good, and ≥40 is excellent.
Many manufacturers of outdoor clothing and activewear now use densely woven, lightweight, quick-drying, synthetic UPF fabrics to make extremely comfortable shirts, pants, and hats.
Many companies use UPF fabric to make swim-shirts, also called rash guards.
Swim-shirts are available with short or long sleeves; some have built-in hoods.
Because UPF 50 fabric blocks 98% of UVR, a person does not need to apply sunscreen to surfaces covered by the shirts.
This may appeal to parents of young children who dislike having sunscreen applied.
Surfers, lap swimmers, and open-water swimmers might prefer smaller, tighter sizes for a streamlined (hydrodynamic) feel in the water.
Hats The ideal hat has a circumferential brim ≥3 inches (approximately 75 mm) wide that shades the face, neck, and ears.
People should not rely on standard baseball caps for sun protection because these do not protect the ears or neck.
Instead, people should consider buying sun-specific caps with ear and neck flaps, many of which are made of UPF fabrics.
These can be quite effective, especially for children.
Sunglasses Protecting one's eyes is a necessary but often overlooked part of UVR protection.
Anytime one is outside during daylight, eyes are exposed to various amounts of UVR, which can have short- and long-term effects that may damage the eyes and affect vision.
UVR can penetrate clouds and haze, so people should protect their eyes regardless of atmospheric conditions.
Wearing sunglasses is the paramount step in protecting one's eyes from UVR.
UVA can harm central vision by damaging the macula (the central focus area of the retina) in the back of the eye.
UVB can damage the cornea and lens in the front of the eye.
Intense UVB exposure, even over several hours, can cause corneal sunburn, also called photokeratitis or snow blindness.
It is an exquisitely painful condition.
The sensitivity to light (photophobia) can force a person to keep their eyes closed for several hours or more.
Snow blindness can occur when UVR reflected off snow nearly doubles the amount of UVB that reaches the eyes.
Other symptoms include copious tearing (watery eyes), injected sclera (noninfectious pink eye), or a gritty foreign-body sensation of the eye.
These symptoms are usually temporary and rarely cause permanent damage to the eyes—but corneal burns are extremely disabling during the painful hours that one must keep the eyes closed.
Long-term UVR exposure can lead to cataract formation, age-related macular degeneration, benign conjunctival growths of scar tissue (called pterygium and pinguecula), and cancers of the eyelids and conjunctiva.
The proper selection of sunglass lenses is an important step for protecting the eyes.
Not all sunglasses provide UV protection for the eyes.
Wrap-around sunglasses or those with sun-blocking side shields provide the best UV protection.
People should choose close-fitting frames that contour to the shape of the face to prevent exposure to direct and reflected UVR from all sides and angles.
The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) has a standard that applies to sunglasses (ANSI Z80.3—Sunglasses Requirements ).
People should choose sunglasses with polarized lenses that are rated UV 400 and meet the ANSI Z80.3 standard; these block nearly 100% of damaging UVR.
Lenses should have a uniform tint throughout.
The tint color (e.g., amber, gray, green, black) does not affect sun protection efficacy, but gray tints provide the best color fidelity.
Polarized or mirrored lenses are not more effective at protecting against UVR, but they do reduce the amount of reflected light entering the eye.
Inexpensive, non-branded sunglasses rated UV 400 are just as effective as expensive, designer-label sunglasses.
Lenses can be glass or plastic.
Modern sunglasses may have UVR protection and polarization incorporated into the lenses themselves.
Sunglasses that meet or exceed the ANSI standard should be labeled as such.
Parents or guardians should provide appropriate eye protection for children.
Some contact lenses offer a modicum of UV protection, but people should also wear sunglasses with contact lenses.
The American Academy of Ophthalmology and the American Optometry Association provide recommendations and information on gradient, transitional, and prescription sunglasses at these websites: Tips for Choosing the Best Sunglasses Recommended Types of Sunglasses Ultraviolet (UV) Protection Beach umbrellas and sun-shade shelters Several types of shade shelters are available: umbrellas, canopies, and tents.
Many shelters marketed for sun-shade combine several features.
People should choose a shelter made with a fire-resistant UPF 50 fabric, usually nylon or polyester, that has a durable yet lightweight frame.
Additional features to consider are the size needed to accommodate the number of people who will use the shelter; weight and the ability to collapse and easily transport the shelter; water-resistant fabric for rain squalls; open or mesh sides that allow adequate air circulation; ability to securely anchor the shelter to the ground with stakes, fillable sandbags, or a combination; and easy assembly, ideally by 1 person.
Standard camping tents generally are unsuitable for shade shelters unless they are rated as such.
Travelers should select beach umbrellas with ample diameter and directional tilt, so the protective field can be adjusted as the sun rises and crosses the sky.
Tall umbrellas with a small surface area lose their protective benefits when the sun is at a low angle.
Wind gusts can uproot and launch umbrellas, posing a safety hazard.
Therefore, people should select an umbrella with parts that can be attached securely to each other and placed firmly in the ground.
Screw-type bases can anchor an umbrella in the sand but are usually sold separately.
Travelers should be aware that some public beaches limit the size of shade shelters.
Sunless tanning Topical sunless tanning products are a safer way in which people can gain a tanned look.
Although these products make the skin appear darker, they do not provide photoprotection, and travelers should still use sunscreen when exposed to UVR.
Sunless tanning products can produce streaking when people sweat or go swimming and can generate an unnatural orange hue on areas of the skin where applied.
Many people believe that getting a pre-vacation tan by using tanning beds will help protect them from vacation sunburns.
However, tanning bed lights rely on UVA, which is associated with premature aging.
Tanning by this method is roughly equivalent to using an SPF 4 sunscreen, which will not prevent sunburns or other forms of solar damage.
Additional sources of information Consumer Reports and the Environmental Working Group review and rate sunscreen products and their components annually.
In general, Consumer Reports ratings emphasize human safety, ease of use, truth in advertising, cost, and performance, while the Environmental Working Group emphasizes environmental safety.
Both identify sunscreens by brand name.
Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Karolyn A.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Risk factors Consequences Prevention Sunless tanning Additional sources of information Acknowledgements RELATED PAGES Environmental Hazards and Risks Heat and Cold Illness in Travelers Air Quality and Ionizing Radiation Scuba Diving and Dive-Related Injuries High-Altitude Travel Mosquitoes, Ticks, and Other Arthropods VIEW ALL Yellow Book Heat and Cold Illness in Travelers SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Malaria Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: Alison D.
Ridpath and Erika Wallender Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should know how to diagnose, treat, and prevent malaria in international travelers.
Introduction Infectious agent Plasmodium spp.
Endemicity Multiple countries in Africa, the Americas, and Asia Traveler categories at greatest risk for exposure and infection Long-term travelers and expatriates Travelers visiting friends and relatives Prevention methods Avoid mosquito bites Use malaria chemoprophylaxis Diagnostic support A clinical laboratory with experience reading blood smears and/or availability of a malaria rapid diagnostic test (RDT); state health department; or contact the CDC Malaria Hotline: • 770-488-7788 (M–F 9 a.m.
Eastern) • 770-488-7100 (after hours) Parasitological diagnosis: DPDx Infectious agent Malaria in humans is caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Plasmodium, including Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium vivax.
Zoonotic forms, especially Plasmodium knowlesi, a parasite of Old World (Eastern Hemisphere) monkeys in Southeast Asia, have been documented as causes of human infections and some deaths.
Transmission Plasmodium species are transmitted by the bite of an infective female Anopheles mosquito.
Malaria transmission occurs in large areas of Africa, Latin America, and parts of the Caribbean, the South Pacific, and in Asia, including South Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East.
Occasionally, transmission occurs by blood transfusion, needle sharing, organ transplantation, or vertically from mother to fetus.
Spread through contamination of shared medical equipment or medication has been reported.
Epidemiology Malaria is a major international public health problem.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) World malaria report 2024 , 83 countries reported approximately 263 million infections and 597,000 deaths in 2023.
Travelers going to malaria-endemic destinations are at risk of contracting the disease, and almost all the approximately 2,000 cases of malaria that occur each year in the United States are imported.
After 2 decades of no reported locally acquired mosquito-transmitted malaria in the United States, 10 cases were reported from 4 states (FL, TX, MD, AR) in 2023.
The risk of acquiring malaria differs substantially from traveler to traveler and from region to region, even within a single country.
This variability is a function of the intensity of transmission within the various regions and the itinerary, duration, season, and type of travel.
Risk also varies by travelers' adherence to mosquito precautions and chemoprophylaxis recommendations.
In 2019 and 2020, the number of cases of malaria diagnosed in the United States and its territories and reported to CDC were 2,048 and 602, respectively.
civilians with malaria who reported a reason for travel, 76% were visiting friends and relatives.
Information about malaria transmission in specific countries is derived from various sources, including WHO.
The information presented here was accurate at the time of publication; readers are encouraged to see updated information on the CDC website because malaria transmission can change rapidly and from year to year due to changes in local weather conditions, mosquito vector density, and prevalence of infection.
Clinical presentation Malaria is characterized by fever and influenza-like symptoms, including chills, headache, myalgias, and malaise; symptoms can occur intermittently.
In severe disease, acute kidney injury, acute respiratory distress syndrome, mental confusion, severe anemia, seizures, coma, and death can occur.
Malaria symptoms can develop as early as 7 days after being bitten by an infectious mosquito and as late as several months or more after exposure.
Suspected or confirmed malaria, especially P.
falciparum, is a medical emergency requiring urgent intervention because clinical deterioration, including death, can occur rapidly and unpredictably.
Travelers who decline to take chemoprophylaxis, who receive a suboptimal drug regimen (e.g., chloroquine in an area with chloroquine-resistant P.
falciparum), or who require a less-than-optimal drug regimen for medical reasons are at increased risk for acquiring malaria.
Travelers with symptoms of malaria should seek the best available medical services as soon as possible, even if still traveling, and should continue their chemoprophylaxis regimen until they have a definitive diagnosis.
See Box 4.10.1 for frequently asked clinical questions.
Box: 4.10.1 Frequently asked clinical questions What should be done if fever develops while traveling in a malaria-endemic area?
Malaria and other potentially life-threatening infections acquired during travel could be fatal if treatment is delayed.
Travelers should promptly seek medical help and continue to take malaria chemoprophylaxis while in the malaria-endemic area.
What should be done if a traveler who took malaria chemoprophylaxis develops fever after returning from their trip?
Malaria chemoprophylaxis, while highly effective, is not 100% effective.
Travelers should be advised to seek medical care immediately if fever develops, report their travel history, get tested for malaria, and get treated promptly if infection is confirmed.
Patients suspected of having malaria should be urgently evaluated in a facility that is able to provide rapid diagnosis and treatment.
Test results must be performed with results available immediately (within a few hours).
A malaria smear must be performed on all individuals and an RDT should be performed concurrently if the results will be available more quickly than the blood smear.
The initial diagnostic tests should not be sent out to reference laboratories that take days to weeks to return results.
Individuals with a positive malaria diagnostic test should be started on antimalarial medications immediately.
In general, empiric treatment with antimalarial drugs is not recommended because the malaria smear provides critical information for appropriate treatment.
The only exception is: if a patient has an illness suggestive of severe malaria and a compatible travel history in an area where malaria transmission occurs, and malaria testing is not immediately available, start treatment as soon as possible, even before the diagnosis is established.
See CDC recommendations for malaria treatment.
How do I address concerns about side effects from chemoprophylaxis?
Chemoprophylaxis can be started earlier if the traveler has concerns about tolerating a particular medication.
For example, mefloquine can be started 3–4 weeks in advance to allow potential adverse events to be evaluated before travel.
If unacceptable side effects develop, the clinician has time to change the medication before the traveler's departure.
The drugs used for malarial chemoprophylaxis are generally well-tolerated.
Minor side effects usually do not require stopping the drug.
Clinicians should determine if symptoms are related to the medicine and make a medication change if needed.
What should a traveler do if they miss a dose of chemoprophylaxis?
Compared with drugs with short half-lives, which are taken daily, drugs with longer half-lives, which are taken weekly, offer the advantage of a wider margin of error if the traveler is late with a dose.
For a weekly drug, prophylactic blood levels can remain adequate if the dose is only 1–2 days late.
If this is the case, the traveler can take a dose as soon as possible, then resume weekly doses on the originally scheduled day.
The traveler should take a dose as soon as possible.
The weekly doses should resume at this new day of the week (the next dose is 1 week later, then weekly thereafter).
For a daily drug, if the traveler is 1–2 days late, protective blood levels are less likely to be maintained.
The traveler should take a dose as soon as possible and resume the daily schedule at the new time of day.
What happens if too high a dose of chemoprophylaxis is taken?
Overdose of antimalarial drugs, particularly chloroquine, can be fatal and is a medical emergency.
Medications should be stored in childproof containers out of reach of infants and children.
Isn't malaria a treatable disease?
Why not carry a treatment dose of antimalarials instead of taking malaria chemoprophylaxis?
Malaria could be fatal even when treated, which is why prevention is always preferable to treating infections after they occur.
In rare instances (see Reliable supply of malaria treatment section), in addition to providing and emphasizing adherence to malaria chemoprophylaxis, a treatment course may be provided to certain travelers.
Diagnosis Consider malaria in any patient with a febrile illness who has recently returned from a malaria endemic country.
All patients in which malaria is considered should receive diagnostic testing immediately; blood smear microscopy is recommended for all of these patients and, if available, additional diagnostic testing such as a malaria RDT should be conducted concurrently if the results can be available more quickly (e.g., within hours) to guide initial antimalarial treatment.
Diagnostic assistance is available from state public health laboratories or CDC.
CDC can also assist laboratories conducting blood smear microscopy through a telediagnosis service; in some cases, confirmation of the species causing malaria is conducted using PCR testing.
CDC conducts surveillance for mutations in malaria parasites that confer resistance to medications.
For further information on submission of specimens for antimalarial resistance surveillance testing, contact malarialab@cdc.gov.
In the United States, malaria is a notifiable disease.
Positive malaria tests are reported electronically to public health departments by laboratories, but healthcare professionals are encouraged to report atypical presentations of malaria (e.g., no travel history, non-response to treatment) to local or state health departments or the CDC Malaria Hotline.
See more information on reporting malaria.
Blood smear microscopy Blood smear microscopy remains the most important method for malaria diagnosis.
Microscopy can provide immediate information about the presence of parasites, allow quantification of the density of the infection, and allow determination of the species of the malaria parasite, all of which are necessary for providing the most appropriate treatment.
Tests should be performed immediately, and microscopy results should be available as soon as possible, within 24 hours of the patient's presentation.
Assistance with speciation of malaria on smears is available from state health departments or CDC.
Rapid diagnostic testing RDTs for malaria detect antigens derived from malaria parasites.
Malaria RDTs are immunochromatographic tests that most often use a dipstick or cassette format and provide results in 2–15 minutes.
RDTs offer a useful alternative to microscopy in situations where reliable microscopic diagnosis is not immediately available.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved an RDT (the BinaxNOW Malaria test) for hospital and commercial laboratory use; the test is not approved for use by clinicians or patients.
Although RDTs can detect malaria antigens within minutes, they have several limitations.
RDTs cannot distinguish between all Plasmodium species that affect humans; they might be less sensitive than expert microscopy or PCR for diagnosis; they cannot quantify parasitemia; and an RDT-positive test result might persist for days or weeks after an infection has been treated and cleared.
RDTs are not useful for assessing response to therapy.
In some areas, mutations are increasingly identified in malaria parasites, resulting in an absence of the malaria antigen usually detected by many RDTs, including the only RDT used in the United States.
The absence of this parasite antigen in peripheral blood can lead to false-negative RDT results.
In the United States, positive and negative RDT results must always be confirmed by microscopy.
Microscopy confirmation of the RDT result should occur as soon as possible because information on the presence, density, and parasite species is critical for optimal management of malaria.
Laboratories that do not provide in-house, on-the-spot microscopy services should maintain a stock of malaria RDTs to perform immediate malaria diagnostic testing when needed.
PCR testing PCR tests are more sensitive than routine microscopy, but results are not usually available as quickly as microscopy results, thus limiting the utility of PCR for rapid diagnosis and initial clinical management.
Use of PCR testing is encouraged to confirm the species of malaria parasite and detect mixed infections.
Treatment Malaria can be treated effectively if treatment begins early in the disease; delaying therapy can have serious or even fatal consequences.
Specific treatment options depend on the species of malaria, severity of infection, likelihood of drug resistance (based on where the infection was acquired), the patient's age, and whether the patient is pregnant or breastfeeding.
See detailed CDC recommendations for malaria treatment.
Consultation with a clinician experienced with management and treatment of malaria is recommended.
For assistance with diagnosis or treatment of malaria, call the CDC Malaria Hotline (770-488-7788 or toll-free at 855-856-4713) from 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
After hours, on weekends, or on holidays, call the CDC Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100 and ask the operator to contact the subject matter expert on call for the Malaria Branch.
If a traveler becomes ill and is diagnosed with malaria while abroad, be aware that medications not used in the United States to treat malaria are widely available in other countries.
However, the treatment prescribed should be based on the malaria treatment guidelines of the country.
Halofantrine is not recommended for treatment because of documented adverse cardiac events, including deaths.
These adverse events have occurred in people with and without preexisting cardiac problems, and both in the presence and absence of other antimalarial drugs.
Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine alone is not recommended because of widespread drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum.
Reliable supply of malaria treatment Some travelers who take effective chemoprophylaxis but who will be in remote areas might decide, in consultation with their travel health professional, to carry a reliable supply of a full course of an approved malaria treatment regimen.
This reliable supply does not obviate the need for malaria chemoprophylaxis.
In the event a traveler carrying a reliable supply is diagnosed with malaria, they will have immediate access to an approved treatment.
The reliable supply should be acquired in the United States, so clinicians can consider the traveler's other medical conditions or medications when selecting an antimalarial drug and to avoid the possibilities of travelers obtaining counterfeit drugs in the local pharmacy or market or depleting local resources.
In rare instances when access to medical care is not available and the traveler develops a febrile illness consistent with malaria, the reliable supply medication can be self-administered presumptively.
Self-treatment of a possible malarial infection is only a temporary measure, and prompt medical evaluation is imperative.
Two malaria treatment regimens available in the United States can be prescribed as a reliable supply for self-treatment: atovaquone-proguanil and artemether-lumefantrine.
The chosen medication should not be the same (or related) drug that has been taken for chemoprophylaxis.
For example, atovaquone-proguanil can be used as a reliable supply medication by travelers who are not taking atovaquone-proguanil for chemoprophylaxis.
See Table 4.10.1 for dosing recommendations.
A reliable supply is not counterfeit or substandard; will not interact adversely with the patient's other medicines, including malaria chemoprophylaxis; will not deplete local resources in the destination country.
2If used for presumptive self-treatment, patients should seek medical care as soon as possible.
3Safety data are limited for concurrent administration of artemether-lumefantrine with other antimalarials.
Administration of artemether-lumefantrine immediately following mefloquine prophylaxis may decrease lumefantrine concentrations and both drugs can lengthen the QT interval.
Prevention Malaria prevention consists of a combination of mosquito-avoidance measures and chemoprophylaxis.
Prevention measures must address all malaria species in the travel area.
Although highly efficacious, interventions are not 100% effective, so all febrile persons returning from malaria-endemic areas should be tested for malaria even if they took chemoprophylaxis.
Preventing malaria involves striking a balance between effectiveness and safety: ensuring that all people at risk for infection use the recommended prevention measures and preventing rare occurrences of adverse effects.
A risk assessment for every traveler includes collecting detailed information about travel itinerary, including countries, specific areas to be visited in those countries (e.g., cities, rural areas, both), types of accommodation, season, and style of travel.
As part of the risk assessment, consider traveler characteristics (e.g., pregnancy, underlying health conditions, medications) and epidemiological features of malaria at the destination (e.g., intensity of transmission, local parasite resistance to drugs).
Depending on the level of risk, it might be appropriate to recommend no specific interventions, mosquito avoidance measures only, or mosquito avoidance measures plus chemoprophylaxis.
Several factors increase a traveler's risk for malaria.
Travel, even for short periods of time, to areas with intense malaria transmission can result in infection.
Malaria transmission is not distributed homogeneously throughout a country, so review the exact itinerary to determine if travel will occur in highly endemic areas.
In countries where malaria is seasonal, travel during peak transmission season increases risk.
Travelers going to rural areas or staying in accommodations without screens or air conditioning also will be at greater risk.
Most cases of malaria seen in the United States are in first- and second-generation immigrants living in non-endemic countries who return to their countries of origin to visit friends and relatives (VFRs).
VFR travelers may erroneously consider themselves immune to malaria because they grew up in a malaria-endemic country.
The partial immunity acquired through continuous exposure to malaria is lost quickly, and VFR travelers should be considered to have the same risk of malaria as other nonimmune travelers.
Even if a traveler has had malaria in the past, they still need to take preventive measures.
Mosquito avoidance measures Malaria transmission occurs primarily between dusk and dawn because of the nocturnal feeding habits of Anopheles mosquitoes.
Travelers can reduce contact with mosquitoes by remaining in enclosed air-conditioned rooms or well-screened areas, sleeping under mosquito nets (preferably insecticide-treated), using an effective insecticide spray or mosquito coils in living and sleeping areas during evening and nighttime hours, and wearing clothes that cover most of the body.
All travelers should use an effective mosquito repellent, such as those that contain DEET.
Repellents should be applied to exposed parts of the skin.
If travelers are also wearing sunscreen, they should apply sunscreen first and insect repellent second.
A permethrin-containing product can be applied to mosquito nets and clothing for additional protection against mosquitoes.
Mosquito repellant-impregnated clothing also is available.
Chemoprophylaxis Choosing a drug to prevent malaria All recommended malaria chemoprophylaxis regimens involve taking a medicine before, during, and after travel to an area with malaria.
Beginning the drug before travel allows the antimalarial agent to be in the blood before the traveler is exposed to malaria parasites.
In choosing a chemoprophylaxis regimen before travel, the traveler and the travel medicine specialist should consider several factors, including The presence of antimalarial drug resistance in the area of travel Length of travel The patient's other medical conditions, allergy history, other medications prescribed or already being taken (to assess possible drug interactions), potential side effects The cost of the antimalarial.
Long-term travelers, defined as people who travel for ≥6 months, have additional considerations (Box 4.10.2).
Table 4.10.2 lists some of the benefits and limitations of medicines used for malaria chemoprophylaxis; see additional information about choosing a malaria chemoprophylaxis regimen.
Because both tafenoquine and primaquine can cause hemolytic anemia in persons with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, quantitative G6PD testing must be done before prescribing primaquine or tafenoquine.
No antimalarial drug is 100% protective, so travelers must combine chemoprophylaxis with mosquito avoidance and personal protective measures (e.g., insect repellent, long-sleeved shirts, long pants, sleeping in a mosquito-free setting, using an insecticide-treated mosquito net).
It is helpful to provide travelers with approaches to managing any adverse events they may experience from malaria chemoprophylaxis medication (e.g., remember to take with food; change time of day; identify other causes of symptoms; manage symptoms without stopping antimalarial if possible) and know what to do if they miss a dose (take the next dose with food as soon as possible; do not double the dose the day after the missed dose).
Recommended options for malaria chemoprophylaxis by country of travel can be found in the Yellow Fever Vaccine and Malaria Prevention Information, by Country chapter.
Table 4.10.2 provides additional information to help determine which of the recommended malaria chemoprophylaxis drugs might be best for a traveler.
Cannot be used in patients with certain psychiatric conditions (FDA black box warning); some travelers without psychiatric conditions would prefer not taking a medication with known neuropsychiatric side effects Cannot be used in patients with a seizure disorder Not recommended for people with cardiac conduction abnormalities Not a good choice for last-minute travelers because drug needs to be started ≥2 weeks before travel Some people would rather not take a weekly medication Some people would rather not take medication for another 4 weeks after leaving malaria-endemic areas Primaquine1 One of the most effective drugs for prevention of P.
vivax Good for last-minute travelers because the drug is started 1–2 days before travel Some people prefer to take a daily medicine Cannot be used in patients with G6PD deficiency Cannot be used in patients who have not been tested for G6PD deficiency Costs and delays associated with getting a quantitative G6PD test might prohibit testing, although after a normal G6PD level is verified and documented, the test does not have to be repeated the next time primaquine or tafenoquine is considered Cannot be used by women who are pregnant Cannot be used by women who are breastfeeding unless the infant has also been tested for G6PD deficiency Some people would rather not take medicine every day Some people are concerned about the potential of getting an upset stomach from primaquine Tafenoquine1 One of the most effective drugs for prevention of P.
vivax malaria but also prevents P.
falciparum Good for last-minute travelers because the drug is started 3 days before travel Cannot be used in people with G6PD deficiency Cannot be used in patients who have not been tested for G6PD deficiency Costs and delays associated with getting a quantitative G6PD test might prohibit testing, although after a normal G6PD level is verified and documented, the test does not have to be repeated the next time tafenoquine or primaquine is considered Cannot be used by children Cannot be used by women who are pregnant Cannot be used by women who are breastfeeding unless the infant has also been tested for G6PD deficiency Not recommended for patients with psychotic disorders Notes Abbreviations: G6PD, glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase.
1Before prescribing primaquine or tafenoquine to any patient, document a normal G6PD level using a quantitative test.
Obtaining medications overseas Travelers should be discouraged from obtaining chemoprophylaxis medications while abroad.
Malaria chemoprophylaxis medications might be available at overseas destinations, including drugs not recommended in the United States; however, the quality of these products is often not known.
Products might be produced under substandard manufacturing practices, be counterfeit, contain contaminants, not be protective, or be dangerous.
See additional information on medications obtained while traveling.
Travel to areas with chloroquine-resistant malaria Chloroquine-resistant P.
falciparum is found in all parts of the world (Africa, Asia, South America) except the Caribbean and Central American countries west of the Panama Canal.
Chloroquine-resistant P.
vivax has been confirmed only in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia.
For destinations with known chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium spp., effective malaria chemoprophylaxis options include atovaquone-proguanil, doxycycline, mefloquine, or tafenoquine.
Travel to areas with chloroquine-sensitive malaria Areas with chloroquine-sensitive Plasmodium spp.
include several Latin American countries where malaria predominantly is caused by P.
Chloroquine-sensitive P.
falciparum is present in the Caribbean and Central American countries west of the Panama Canal.
For destinations in which all Plasmodium spp.
are known to be chloroquine-sensitive, effective malaria chemoprophylaxis options include chloroquine, atovaquone-proguanil, doxycycline, mefloquine, and tafenoquine.
In countries where P.
vivax predominates, primaquine is also an option.
Because both tafenoquine and primaquine can cause hemolytic anemia in persons with G6PD deficiency, quantitative G6PD testing must be done before prescribing primaquine or tafenoquine.
Travel to areas with mefloquine-resistant malaria Mefloquine-resistant P.
falciparum has been confirmed in Southeast Asia on the borders of Thailand with Burma (Myanmar) and Cambodia, in the western provinces of Cambodia, in the eastern states of Burma on the border between Burma and China, along the borders of Burma and Laos, and in southern Vietnam.
For destinations with known mefloquine-resistant Plasmodium spp., effective malaria chemoprophylaxis options are atovaquone-proguanil, doxycycline, and tafenoquine.
Medications used for chemoprophylaxis Atovaquone-proguanil Atovaquone-proguanil (Malarone) is a fixed combination of the drugs atovaquone and proguanil.
Chemoprophylaxis should begin 1–2 days before travel to malaria-endemic areas; the medication should then be taken daily, with food, ideally at the same time each day, while in malaria-endemic areas, and daily for 7 days after leaving the endemic areas (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Atovaquone-proguanil is well-tolerated, and side effects are rare.
The most common adverse effects reported in people using atovaquone-proguanil for chemoprophylaxis or treatment are abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and headache.
Proguanil can increase the effect of warfarin, so travelers might need international normalized ratio monitoring or adjustment of warfarin dosage.
No data are available regarding the clinical impact of taking atovaquone-proguanil and warfarin at the same time.
vivax Terminal chemoprophylaxis (presumptive antirelapse therapy) to decrease the risk for relapses of P.
vivax or P.
30 mg base (52.6 mg salt) taken orally, 1x/day Same dose used for both primary and terminal chemoprophylaxis; duration of therapy differs 0.5 mg/kg base (0.8 mg/kg salt), up to maximum dose of 30 mg base (52.6 mg salt), taken orally, 1x/day Same dose used for both primary and terminal chemoprophylaxis; duration of therapy differs Begin taking 1–2 days before travel to malaria-endemic areas Take 1×/day, ideally at the same time each day, while in malaria-endemic areas Continue taking 1×/day for an additional 7 days after leaving endemic areas Terminal chemoprophylaxis indicated for people with prolonged exposure to P.
vivax, or both; take daily for 14 days after leaving endemic area Contraindicated in people with G6PD deficiency Contraindicated during pregnancy and breastfeeding unless the breastfed infant has a documented normal G6PD level Tafenoquine1 Chemoprophylaxis in all malaria-endemic areas 200 mg orally Not indicated for use in children Begin taking 3 days before travel to malaria-endemic areas with a loading dose of 200 mg daily for 3 days Take 200 mg 1x/week, on the same day each week, while in malaria-endemic areas Take 1 additional 200 mg dose in the week after leaving endemic areas Contraindicated in people with G6PD deficiency Contraindicated during pregnancy and breastfeeding unless the breastfed infant has a documented normal G6PD level Notes Abbreviations: G6PD, glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase.
1Before prescribing primaquine or tafenoquine to any patient, document a normal G6PD level using a quantitative test.
Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine Chloroquine phosphate or hydroxychloroquine sulfate (Plaquenil) can be used to prevent malaria only in destinations where chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium spp.
are not prevalent.
Chemoprophylaxis should begin 1–2 weeks before travel to malaria-endemic areas.
Travelers should continue taking the drug once a week, on the same day of the week, during travel in malaria-endemic areas, and for 4 weeks after they leave endemic areas (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Reported side effects of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine include blurred vision, dizziness, gastrointestinal disturbance, headache, insomnia, and pruritus, but generally, these effects do not require travelers to discontinue the drug.
An alternative drug might be preferred by travelers who experienced pruritus with previous use of the drug.
High doses of chloroquine (e.g., those used to treat rheumatoid arthritis) have been associated with retinopathy; this serious side effect appears to be extremely unlikely when chloroquine is used for routine weekly malaria chemoprophylaxis.
Chloroquine and related compounds reportedly can exacerbate psoriasis.
People who experience uncomfortable side effects after taking chloroquine might tolerate the drug better by taking it with meals.
As an alternative, a traveler experiencing side effects might better tolerate the related compound, hydroxychloroquine sulfate.
Doxycycline Doxycycline chemoprophylaxis should begin 1–2 days before travel to malaria-endemic areas.
Doxycycline should be taken once a day during travel in malaria-endemic areas and daily for 4 weeks after the traveler leaves endemic areas.
Insufficient data exist on the antimalarial prophylactic efficacy of related compounds (e.g., minocycline, commonly prescribed for the treatment of acne).
People on a long-term regimen of minocycline who need malaria chemoprophylaxis should stop taking minocycline 1–2 days before travel and start doxycycline instead.
Minocycline can be restarted after the full course of doxycycline is completed (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Doxycycline can cause photosensitivity, usually manifested as an exaggerated sunburn reaction.
The risk for such a reaction can be minimized by avoiding prolonged, direct exposure to the sun and by using sunscreen.
Doxycycline use is associated with an increased frequency of vaginal yeast infections.
Gastrointestinal side effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting) can be minimized by taking the drug with a meal or by specifically prescribing doxycycline monohydrate or the enteric-coated doxycycline hyclate, rather than the generic doxycycline hyclate, which is often less expensive.
To reduce the risk for esophagitis, advise travelers to swallow the medicine with sufficient fluids and to avoid taking doxycycline before lying down or going to bed.
Vaccination with the oral typhoid vaccine Ty21a should be completed ≥24 hours before taking a dose of doxycycline.
Mefloquine Mefloquine chemoprophylaxis should begin ≥2 weeks before travel to malaria-endemic areas.
Travelers should continue taking the drug weekly, on the same day each week, during travel in malaria-endemic areas and for 4 weeks after leaving endemic areas (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Mefloquine has been associated with rare but serious adverse reactions (e.g., psychosis, seizures) when taken at prophylactic doses; these reactions are more frequent with the higher doses used for treatment.
Other side effects reported in chemoprophylaxis studies include abnormal dreams, anxiety disorder, depression, dizziness, gastrointestinal disturbance, headache, insomnia, and visual disturbances.
Other neuropsychiatric disorders occasionally reported include aggressive behavior, agitation or restlessness, confusion, encephalopathy, forgetfulness, hallucinations, mood changes, panic attacks, paranoia, and sensory and motor neuropathies (e.g., ataxia, paresthesia, tremors).
FDA also includes a boxed warning that mefloquine may cause neuropsychiatric adverse reactions that can persist after mefloquine has been discontinued.
Mefloquine is contraindicated in people with active depression, a recent history of depression, generalized anxiety disorder, psychosis, schizophrenia and other major psychiatric disorders, or seizures.
Mefloquine should be avoided in people with a history of depression.
Mefloquine is also contraindicated for travelers with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or related compounds (e.g., quinidine, quinine).
Mefloquine is not recommended for people with cardiac conduction abnormalities.
A review of available data suggests that mefloquine can be used safely in people concurrently taking beta-blockers if they have no underlying arrhythmia.
Any traveler receiving a prescription for mefloquine must also receive a copy of the FDA medication guide .
Primaquine Primaquine can cause potentially life-threatening hemolysis in people with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency.
G6PD deficiency must be ruled out with a quantitative laboratory test before prescribing primaquine to patients.
Primaquine phosphate has 2 distinct uses for malaria prevention in people with normal G6PD levels: primary chemoprophylaxis in areas with primarily P.
vivax and terminal chemoprophylaxis for travelers who have had prolonged exposure to P.
vivax or P.
ovale in malaria-endemic areas.
Among people with normal G6PD levels taking primaquine, the most common adverse event is gastrointestinal upset, which can be minimized or eliminated if it is taken with food.
Primary chemoprophylaxis When taken for primary chemoprophylaxis, primaquine should be taken 1–2 days before travel to malaria-endemic areas, daily, with food, ideally at the same time each day, while in the malaria-endemic area, and daily for 7 days after leaving the area (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Terminal chemoprophylaxis Terminal chemoprophylaxis (also known as presumptive antirelapse therapy) is indicated for long-term travelers (e.g., military personnel, missionaries, Peace Corps volunteers) with prolonged exposure to P.
ovale or P.
vivax malaria.
Terminal prophylaxis involves taking primaquine toward the end of the exposure period (or immediately thereafter) for the purpose of eliminating hypnozoites (dormant liver stages) of P.
ovale or P.
vivax and preventing relapses or delayed-onset clinical presentations of malaria.
Most malaria-endemic areas of the world (except the Caribbean) have circulating P.
vivax and/or P.
Travelers to these areas have some risk of relapsing malaria, although the actual risk for an individual traveler is difficult to define.
When indicated, travelers should take primaquine for 14 days after leaving a malaria-endemic area, concurrently with their primary chemoprophylaxis medication.
If chloroquine, doxycycline, or mefloquine is used for primary chemoprophylaxis, prescribe primaquine for travelers to take during the last 2 weeks of chemoprophylaxis.
When atovaquone-proguanil is used, travelers can take primaquine during the final 7 days of atovaquone-proguanil, and then for an additional 7 days.
If concurrent administration of primary and terminal chemoprophylaxis is not feasible, instruct travelers to take primaquine after completing their primary chemoprophylaxis medication.
Primary chemoprophylaxis with primaquine or with tafenoquine (see the following section) obviates the need for terminal chemoprophylaxis.
Tafenoquine Tafenoquine can cause potentially life-threatening hemolysis in people with G6PD deficiency.
Rule out G6PD deficiency with a quantitative laboratory test before prescribing tafenoquine to patients.
Primary chemoprophylaxis Tafenoquine (Arakoda 100 mg tablets) can be used to prevent malaria in adults (see Table 4.10.3 for recommended dosages).
Travelers should take a daily loading dose of tafenoquine for 3 days before leaving for a malaria-endemic area; starting 7 days after the loading dose is complete, they should take a weekly maintenance dose while in the malaria-endemic area; then take a final dose in the week after leaving the malaria-endemic area.
Doses should be taken on the same day each week.
Tafenoquine is contraindicated in pregnant women.
It is contraindicated during breastfeeding if either the breastfeeding woman or the infant have intermediate or low G6PD activity or if their G6PD status is unknown.
Avoid prescribing tafenoquine for people with a history of psychotic disorder; rare psychiatric adverse events have been observed in people with a history of psychotic disorder using higher doses of tafenoquine.
The most common adverse events reported with use of tafenoquine are dizziness, gastrointestinal disturbances, headache, and clinically insignificant decreases in hemoglobin.
Tafenoquine should be taken with food.
Terminal chemoprophylaxis As of 2020, CDC no longer recommends tafenoquine for terminal chemoprophylaxis of P.
ovale or P.
vivax malaria.
Chemoprophylaxis for infants, children, and adolescents All children traveling to malaria-endemic areas should use recommended prevention measures, which often include taking an antimalarial drug.
Calculate pediatric doses carefully according to the patient's body weight, but never exceed the adult dose.
In the United States, antimalarial drugs are not available in liquid formulation and can taste bitter.
Pharmacists can pulverize tablets and prepare gelatin capsules for each measured dose.
If a child is unable to swallow capsules or tablets, parents should prepare the child's medication dose by breaking open the gelatin capsule or crushing the pill and mixing the drug with a small amount of something sweet (e.g., condensed milk, chocolate syrup, chocolate spread) to ensure the entire dose is delivered to the child.
Giving the dose on a full stomach can minimize stomach upset and vomiting.
Chloroquine and mefloquine are options for infants and children of all ages and weights, depending on drug resistance at the destination.
Doxycycline can be used for children aged ≥8 years.
Primaquine can be used for children who are not G6PD-deficient and who are traveling to areas with principally P.
Pediatric dosing regimens are included in Table 4.10.3.
Chemoprophylaxis during pregnancy Malaria infection can be more severe in pregnant than in nonpregnant women.
Malaria increases the risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes, including premature birth, spontaneous abortion, and stillbirth.
Because no chemoprophylaxis regimen is completely effective, avoidance of travel to areas with malaria transmission during pregnancy is optimal.
If travel to a malaria-endemic area cannot be deferred, an effective chemoprophylaxis regimen and mosquito avoidance measures are essential.
Pregnant women traveling to areas where chloroquine-resistant P.
falciparum has not been reported can take chloroquine chemoprophylaxis.
Chloroquine has not been found to have harmful effects on the fetus when used in the recommended doses for malaria chemoprophylaxis.
For travel to areas with chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium, mefloquine is the only medication recommended for malaria chemoprophylaxis during pregnancy.
Studies of mefloquine use during pregnancy have found no indication of adverse effects on the fetus.
Atovaquone-proguanil is not recommended for use during pregnancy because of limited availability of data on its safety and because other options are available.
If other antimalarial drug options are not feasible, clinicians and patients should weigh the options, risks, and benefits of using atovaquone-proguanil to make the best decision for the patient.
Doxycycline is contraindicated for malaria chemoprophylaxis during pregnancy because of the risk for adverse effects seen with tetracycline, a related drug, on the fetus.
These adverse effects include discoloration and dysplasia of the teeth and inhibition of bone growth.
Neither primaquine nor tafenoquine should be used during pregnancy; both drugs can be passed transplacentally to a G6PD-deficient fetus and cause hemolytic anemia in utero.
Women planning to become pregnant can use the same medications recommended for use during pregnancy (chloroquine or mefloquine, depending on the area of travel).
There are no data to guide specific recommendations about delaying pregnancy after the use of malaria chemoprophylaxis medicines.
If the traveler or their healthcare professional wishes to decrease the amount of antimalarial drug in the body before conception, Table 4.10.4 provides information on half-lives of the recommended malaria chemoprophylaxis medicines.
After two half-lives, approximately 25% of the drug remains in the body, 6% remains after four half-lives, and 2% remains after six half-lives.
Chemoprophylaxis during breastfeeding Antimalarial drug concentrations in breast milk are too low to protect nursing infants from malaria.
Infants who require chemoprophylaxis should receive the recommended dosages of antimalarial drugs listed in Table 4.10.3.
The small amounts of chloroquine and mefloquine excreted in breast milk do not pose a safety hazard to infants.
Data about use of doxycycline in lactating women are very limited; the theoretical possibility of adverse events to the infant is considered to be remote.
Atovaquone-proguanil can be used to treat women with malaria who are breastfeeding infants of any weight when the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the infant (e.g., treating a breastfeeding woman who has acquired P.
falciparum malaria in an area of multidrug-resistant strains and who cannot tolerate other treatment options).
Limited information is available on the amount of primaquine in human breast milk, and no data are available for tafenoquine.
The woman breastfeeding and the infant must be tested for G6PD deficiency before initiating chemoprophylaxis with either of these drugs.
Changing medications as a result of side effects during chemoprophylaxis Medications recommended for malaria chemoprophylaxis have different modes of action that affect the parasites at different stages of the life cycle.
Thus, if the medication needs to be changed because of side effects before a full course has been completed, some special considerations exist (Table 4.10.5).
Ideally, travelers would identify side effects before departing so medications switches can occur before arrival in endemic areas.
Switching from a daily to a weekly chemoprophylaxis medication is not recommended because it takes time for the weekly medication to reach protective levels.
Table 4.10.4: Half-lives of medications used at doses recommended for malaria chemoprophylaxis Drug Half-Life Atovaquone 2–3 days Chloroquine 1–2 months Doxycycline 15–24 hours Hydroxychloroquine 1–2 months Mefloquine 2–4 weeks Primaquine 4–7 hours Proguanil 12–25 hours Tafenoquine 14–28 days Table 4.10.5: Malaria chemoprophylaxis, changing medications due to side effects1 Drug Being Stopped: Atovaquone-Proguanil Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Chloroquine Not recommended Doxycycline Stop atovaquone-proguanil and begin (within 24 hours of the last dose) daily doxycycline.
Continue daily doxycycline while in malaria-endemic areas and through an additional 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area.
Mefloquine Not recommended Primaquine Only an option for travelers with normal G6PD activity in P.
Stop atovaquone-proguanil and begin (within 24 hours of the last dose) daily primaquine.
Continue daily primaquine while in malaria-endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Tafenoquine Not recommended Drug Being Stopped: Chloroquine Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Atovaquone-proguanil Stop chloroquine and begin (within 7 days of last dose) daily atovaquone-proguanil.
Continue daily atovaquone-proguanil while in malaria endemic areas.
Duration after departure depends on when the switch occurs: If the switch occurs ≥3 weeks before departure from a malaria-endemic area, continue daily atovaquone-proguanil through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Continue daily doxycycline while in malaria-endemic areas and through an additional 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area.
Mefloquine Not recommended Primaquine Only an option for travelers with normal G6PD activity in P.
Stop chloroquine and begin (within 7 days of last dose) daily primaquine.
Continue daily primaquine while in malaria-endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Tafenoquine Only an option for travelers ≥18 years of age with normal G6PD activity.
Stop chloroquine and begin (as soon as possible) tafenoquine.
Start by taking tafenoquine 1× per day for 3 days, then 1× per week.
Continue weekly tafenoquine while in malaria endemic areas.
Take 1 final dose of tafenoquine during the week after leaving the endemic area.
Drug Being Stopped: Doxycycline Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Atovaquone-proguanil Stop doxycycline and begin (within 24 hours of last dose) daily atovaquone-proguanil.
Continue daily atovaquone-proguanil while in malaria endemic areas.
Duration after departure depends on when the switch occurs: If the switch occurs ≥3 weeks before departure from a malaria-endemic area, continue daily atovaquone-proguanil through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Stop doxycycline and begin (within 24 hours of last dose) daily primaquine.
Continue daily primaquine while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Tafenoquine Not recommended Drug Being Stopped: Mefloquine Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Atovaquone-proguanil Stop mefloquine and begin (within 7 days of the last dose) daily atovaquone-proguanil.
Continue daily atovaquone-proguanil while in malaria endemic areas.
Duration after departure depends on when the switch occurs: If the switch occurs ≥3 weeks before departure from a malaria-endemic area, continue daily atovaquone-proguanil through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Continue daily doxycycline while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area.
Primaquine Only an option for travelers with normal G6PD activity in P.
Stop mefloquine and begin (within 7 days of the last dose) daily primaquine.
Continue daily primaquine while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Tafenoquine Only an option for travelers ≥18 years of age with normal G6PD activity.
Stop mefloquine and begin (as soon as possible) tafenoquine.
Start by taking tafenoquine 1× per day for 3 days, then 1× per week.
Continue weekly tafenoquine while in malaria endemic areas.
Take 1 final dose of tafenoquine during the week after leaving the endemic area.
Drug Being Stopped: Primaquine Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Atovaquone-proguanil Stop primaquine and begin (within 24 hours of the last dose) daily atovaquone-proguanil.
Continue daily atovaquone-proguanil while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Chloroquine Not recommended Doxycycline Stop primaquine and begin (within 24 hours of last dose) daily doxycycline.
Continue daily doxycycline while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area.
Mefloquine Not recommended Tafenoquine Not recommended Drug Being Stopped: Tafenoquine Drug Being Started Directions for Use and Comments Atovaquone-proguanil Stop tafenoquine and begin (within 7 days of last dose) daily atovaquone-proguanil.
Continue daily atovaquone-proguanil while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 7 days after leaving the endemic area.
Chloroquine Not recommended Doxycycline Stop tafenoquine and begin (within 7 days of last dose) daily doxycycline.
Continue daily doxycycline.
Continue daily doxycycline while in malaria endemic areas and through an additional 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area.
Mefloquine Not recommended Primaquine Not recommended Notes Abbreviations: G6PD, glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase.
1Unless otherwise noted, use the medication doses and frequencies of each drug as described in Table 4.10.3.
2It is unknown whether atovaquone-proguanil is effective as causal chemoprophylaxis (targeting the initial liver stage) if it is started after malaria exposure, and therefore it needs to be continued for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area in those circumstances.
Longer stays mean longer duration of exposure and increased risk of acquiring malaria.
Travelers' attention to mosquito avoidance can wane over time.
Travelers might not adhere to a lengthy course of malaria chemoprophylaxis due to forgetfulness, fear of side effects, and the possible declining sense of risk and need over time.
Travelers might move between highly endemic or low endemic areas within a country or region.
Travelers might have a decreased sense of risk and concern about malaria after engaging in local conversations and lore, particularly regarding malaria immunity over time.
Travelers who become ill with malaria in countries with limited access and quality of health care might not receive appropriate or effective treatment.
Additional advice for long-term travelers Travelers should not count on being able to obtain safe, reliable malaria chemoprophylaxis medication abroad; strongly advise that before leaving the United States they purchase enough medication to last them for the entire duration of their travel to malaria-endemic areas.
Emphasize continued adherence to and safety of malaria chemoprophylaxis drugs.
Develop a plan for seeking immediate care when ill with fever, including where to get tested and treated for malaria promptly.
Advise travelers to purchase travel insurance, including contingencies for medical evacuation.
Consider prescribing a reliable supply of a treatment dose of antimalarial drugs to be available in case malaria is diagnosed while traveling.
Travel to areas with limited malaria transmission For destinations where malaria cases occur sporadically and risk for infection to travelers is considered low, CDC recommends that travelers use mosquito avoidance measures only, and no chemoprophylaxis.
Blood donation after travel to malaria-endemic areas People who have been in an area where malaria transmission occurs should defer donating blood after returning from the malaria-endemic area to prevent transmission of malaria through blood transfusion (Table 4.10.6).
Risk assessments can differ between travel medicine specialists and blood banks.
A travel medicine specialist advising a traveler going to a country with relatively low malaria transmission for a short period of time and engaging in low-risk behaviors might suggest the traveler use only mosquito-bite precautions and no chemoprophylaxis.
Upon the traveler's return, however, a blood bank might still choose to defer blood donations from that traveler because of travel to an area where transmission occurs.
Table 4.10.6: U.S.
Food and Drug Administration recommendations for deferring blood donation in people returning from malaria-endemic areas Group Blood Donation Deferral Travelers to malaria-endemic areas Not permitted to donate blood for 3 months after travel Former residents of malaria-endemic areas Not permitted to donate blood for 3 years after departing; if they return to a malaria-endemic area within that 3-year period, they are deferred for an additional 3 years People diagnosed with malaria Not permitted to donate blood for 3 years after treatment Acknowledgements The following authors contributed to the previous version of this chapter: Francisca Abanyie and Kathrine R.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Infectious agent Transmission Epidemiology Clinical presentation Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Travel to areas with limited malaria transmission Blood donation after travel to malaria-endemic areas Show More Measles (Rubeola) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sepsis BUSCAR Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes VER TODO ENGLISH (US) Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales sobre sepsis en español Hoja informativa, folleto e infografía sobre sepsis.
Sepsis La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Es una emergencia médica potencialmente mortal.
Recommendations and Reports November 8, 2002 / 51(RR17);1-10 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Yellow Fever Vaccine Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), 2002 Prepared by Martin S.
Cetron, M.D.,1 Anthony A.
Marfin, M.D.,2 Kathleen G.
Julian, M.D.,2 Duane J.
Gubler, Sc.D.,2 Donald J.
Sharp, M.D.,1 Rachel S.
Ph.D.,1 Leisa H.
Weld, Ph.D.,1 Robert Chen, M.D.,3 Richard D.
Clover, M.D.,4 Jaime Deseda-Tous, M.D.,5 Victor Marchessault, M.D.,6 Paul A.
Offit, M.D.,7 and Thomas P.
Monath, M.D.,8 1Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, 2Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC; 3Division of Epidemiology and Surveillance, National Immunization Program, CDC; 4American Academy of Family Physicians, Louisville, Kentucky; 5San Jorge Children's Hospital, San Juan, Puerto Rico; 6Canadian National Advisory Committee on Immunization, Cumberland, Ontario, Canada; 7Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and 8Acambis, Cambridge, England, United Kingdom The material in this report originated in the National Center for Infectious Diseases, James M.
Hughes, M.D., Director, and the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, Tony D.
Perez, Director.
Summary This report updates CDC's recommendations for using yellow fever vaccine (CDC.
The 2002 recommendations include new or updated information regarding 1) reports of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (previously reported as febrile multiple organ system failure); 2) use of yellow fever vaccine for pregnant women and persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); and 3) concurrent use of yellow fever vaccine with other vaccines.
A link to this report and other information related to yellow fever can be accessed at the website for Travelers' Health, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC, at  and through the website for the Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC, at 
Introduction Yellow fever occurs only in Africa and South America.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that a total of 200,000 cases of yellow fever occur each year (1).
The clinical spectrum of yellow fever ranges from subclinical infection to overwhelming pansystemic disease (2).
Yellow fever has an abrupt onset after an incubation period of 3--6 days, and usually includes fever, prostration, headache, photophobia, lumbosacral pain, extremity pain (including the knee joints), epigastric pain, anorexia, and vomiting.
The illness might progress to liver and renal failure, and hemorrhagic symptoms and signs caused by thrombocytopenia and abnormal clotting and coagulation can occur.
The fatality rate of severe yellow fever is approximately 20%.
Definitive diagnosis is made by viral culture of blood or tissue specimens or by identification of yellow fever virus antigen or nucleic acid in tissues (including liver) using immunohistochemistry (IHC), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) antigen capture, or polymerase chain reaction tests (3).
Treatment for yellow fever consists of providing general supportive care and varies, depending on which organ systems are involved.
No effective specific antiviral therapy for yellow fever has been identified.
Two forms of yellow fever, urban and jungle, are epidemiologically distinguishable.
Clinically and etiologically they are identical (4,5).
Urban yellow fever is an epidemic viral disease of humans transmitted from infected to susceptible persons by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which breed in domestic and peridomestic containers (e.g., water jars, barrels, drums, tires, or tin cans) and thus in close association with humans.
In areas where Ae.
aegypti has been eliminated or suppressed, urban yellow fever has disappeared.
In the mid-1900s, eradication of Ae.
aegypti in multiple countries, notably Panama, Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Argentina, led to the disappearance of urban yellow fever.
The last documented Ae.
aegypti-borne yellow fever epidemic in the western hemisphere occurred in Trinidad in 1954.
However, in recent years, reinfestation of countries that had previously eradicated Ae.
aegypti has occurred (5).
aegypti mosquitoes are strongly suspected as having played a role in transmission in outbreaks occurring in Bolivia in 1989, 1990, and 1998 (6,7).
Other countries remain infested, including areas of Venezuela and the Guianas, which include enzootic areas for jungle yellow fever.
In Africa, yellow fever epidemics caused by transmission by Ae.
aegypti continue to occur and involve human populations both in towns and in rural villages (8,9).
Jungle yellow fever is primarily an enzootic viral disease transmitted among nonhuman primate hosts by different mosquito vectors, but endemic and epidemic jungle yellow fever can occur.
It is observed only in forest-savannah zones of tropical Africa and in forested areas of South America but, in the past, occasionally extended into parts of Central America; it is enzootic in the jungles on the island of Trinidad.
In South America, approximately 500 human cases are reported annually, primarily among men with occupational exposures in forested areas; however, the disease is believed to be substantially underreported (10).
In Africa, epidemics involving tree-hole--breeding mosquito vectors affect thousands of persons at intermittent intervals, but only a limited number of cases are officially reported.
Sometimes the disease is not detected in an area for years but then will reappear.
Delineation of affected areas depends on surveillance for animal reservoirs and vectors, accurate diagnosis, and prompt reporting of all human cases.
The jungle yellow fever cycle might be active but unrecognized in forested areas of countries within the yellow fever-endemic zone (Figure).
Urban yellow fever can be prevented by vaccinating human populations at risk for infection or by suppressing populations of Ae.
aegypti mosquitoes so that they no longer perpetuate infection.
Jungle yellow fever can most effectively be prevented by vaccination of human populations at risk for exposure.
Yellow Fever Vaccine Yellow fever vaccine is a live, attenuated virus preparation made from the 17D yellow fever virus strain (11).
Historically, the 17D vaccine has been considered to be one of the safest and most effective live virus vaccines ever developed (2,12).
The virus is grown in chick embryos inoculated with a seed virus of a fixed passage level.
The 17D yellow fever vaccine virus family is the foundation for both the 17D-204 lineage and 17DD lineage.
Vaccine type 17D-204 is used in both the United States and Australia, whereas vaccine type 17DD is used in Brazil.
The two vaccine types share 99.9% sequence homology (13).
The 17D-204 strain YF-VAX® (manufactured by Aventis, Swiftwater, Pennsylvania) vaccine is a freeze-dried supernatant of centrifuged embryo homogenate, packaged in 1-dose and 5-dose vials for domestic use.
The vaccine should be stored at temperatures of 2ºC--8ºC (35ºF--46ºF) until it is reconstituted by the addition of diluent (sterile, physiologic saline) supplied by the manufacturer.
Multidose vials of reconstituted vaccine should be held at 2ºC--8ºC (35ºF--46ºF); unused vaccine should be discarded within 1 hour after reconstitution.
These areas are listed in the "Bi-Weekly Summary of Countries with Areas Infected with Quarantinable Diseases," available at state and local health departments.
Information concerning known or probable infected areas is also available from WHO ( the Pan American Health Organization, the Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases (telephone: 970-221-6400) or the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (telephone: 404-498-1600) at CDC, or at 
Vaccination is also recommended for travel to countries that do not officially report the disease but that lie in the yellow fever-endemic zone (see shaded areas in the figure).
In recent years, fatal cases of yellow fever have occurred among unvaccinated tourists from the United States and Europe who visited rural areas within the yellow fever-endemic zone (3,14--18).
Because of incomplete surveillance, the actual areas of yellow fever virus activity might exceed the infected zones officially reported by individual ministries of health.
Since 1945, among the reported cases of vaccine-associated encephalitis, only two cases have been reported of children aged 6 and 7 months developing encephalitis after yellow fever vaccination.
One such situation is the unavoidable exposure of children aged 6--8 months to an environment where an increased likelihood of becoming infected with the yellow fever virus exists (e.g., a setting of endemic or epidemic yellow fever) (1).
Because the seroconversion rate after vaccination of pregnant women might be markedly reduced compared with that of other healthy women, serologic tests to determine if a specific yellow fever immune response exists should be considered.
To discuss the need for serologic testing, the appropriate state health department or the Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases (telephone: 970-221-6400) or the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (telephone: 404-498-1600) at CDC should be contacted (see Precautions and Contraindications).
Laboratory Personnel Laboratory personnel who might be exposed to virulent yellow fever virus or to concentrated preparations of the 17D vaccine strain by direct or indirect contact or by aerosols should also be vaccinated.
Requirements for Vaccination Before International Travel For purposes of international travel, yellow fever vaccines produced by different manufacturers worldwide must be approved by WHO and administered at an approved yellow fever vaccination center.
In addition to CDC's Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, state and territorial health departments have the authority to designate nonfederal vaccination centers; these centers can be identified by contacting state or local health departments.
Vaccinees should receive an International Certificate of Vaccination that has been completed, signed, and validated with the center's stamp when the vaccine is administered.
Vaccination for international travel might be required under circumstances other than those specified in this report.
Certain countries in Africa require evidence of vaccination from all entering travelers.
Because requirements might change, all travelers should seek up-to-date information from health departments, CDC, and WHO.
Travel agencies, international airlines, or shipping lines also should have up-to-date information.
Certain countries require persons, even if only in transit, to have valid International Certificates of Vaccination if they have been in countries either known or thought to have yellow fever virus.
Such requirements might be enforced strictly, including for persons traveling from Africa or South America to Asia.
Travelers should consult CDC's travel information website at  (19) to determine requirements and regulations for vaccination.
Primary Vaccination For persons of all ages for whom vaccination is indicated, a single subcutaneous injection of 0.5 mL of reconstituted vaccine is used.
Booster Doses The International Health Regulations require revaccination at intervals of 10 years.
Revaccination can boost antibody titer; however, evidence from multiple studies (20--23) demonstrates that yellow fever vaccine immunity persists for 30--35 years and probably for life.
Safety General Events Reactions to 17D yellow fever vaccine are typically mild.
After vaccination, vaccinees have reported mild headaches, myalgia, low-grade fevers, or other minor symptoms for 5--10 days.
Approximately 1% of vaccinees curtail regular activities.
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions, characterized by rash, urticaria, or asthma, are uncommon (i.e., an estimated incidence of 1/130,000--250,000) and occur principally among persons with histories of allergies to egg or other substances (26).
Gelatin is used as a stabilizer in different vaccines, including yellow fever vaccine.
Gelatin has been implicated as a cause of allergic reaction related to other vaccines and, therefore, might also do the same regarding yellow fever vaccine (27--29).
Vaccine strain viremia after primary vaccination with yellow fever vaccine frequently occurs among healthy persons, but is usually waning or absent after the first week (2,30).
Yellow Fever Vaccine-Associated Neurotropic Disease Historically, yellow fever vaccine-associated neurotropic disease (formerly known as postvaccinal encephalitis) among children has been the most common serious adverse event associated with yellow fever vaccines.
The other seven cases occurred among persons aged 3--76 years.
Only three of these cases of encephalitis were associated with vaccinations in the United States; one occurred in 1959 (in a person aged 10 weeks); the second in 1965 (in a person aged 3 years); and one in 1998 (in a person aged 76 years).
One of the three cases was fatal, and 17D virus was isolated from the brain of this patient (33).
Since 1965, only one case of yellow fever vaccine-associated encephalitis in the United States has been reported in the scientific literature.
The case occurred in a male aged 76 years who suffered both yellow fever vaccine-associated neurotropic disease and yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (31).
The most recent case of possible yellow fever vaccine-associated neurotropic disease was reported in 2002 from Thailand and involved a man aged 53 years who had unrecognized human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (32).
Recently, four reports have been made to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) of encephalitis among adult recipients of yellow fever vaccine (persons aged 16, 36, 41, and 71 years) with onset of illness 4--23 days after vaccination.
The occurrence of vaccine-associated neurotropic disease does not appear to be confined to infants but does appear to be limited.
Yellow Fever Vaccine-Associated Viscerotropic Disease Recently, a new serious adverse reaction syndrome has been described among recipients of different yellow fever vaccines.
This syndrome was previously reported as febrile multiple organ system failure, and is now called yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease.
In July 2001, the first seven case reports of this syndrome appeared in the scientific literature.
These cases occurred during 1996--2001 and described patients with severe multiple organ system failure; 6 of the 7 patients died (31,34--36).
Subsequently, retrospective and prospective case finding has identified three additional suspected cases (37--39).
These additional cases demonstrate that this serious adverse reaction probably occurs as a clinical spectrum of disease severity, from moderate illness with focal organ dysfunction to severe disease with overt multiple organ system failure and death.
These 10 cases demonstrate the viscerotropic potential of 17D vaccine virus among certain persons.
A phase III nonplacebo controlled clinical trial was recently completed that compared safety and reactogenicity among 1,440 healthy volunteers randomized to receive either one of two 17D-204 vaccines, ARILVAX™ (manufactured by Evans Vaccines Speke, Liverpool, United Kingdom) or YF-VAX® (Aventis Pasteur Inc., Swiftwater, Pennsylvania) (24).
Adverse events were actively monitored for 30 days.
Although no placebo group was included, which limits the interpretation of results, 3%--4% of vaccine recipients in both arms of the study experienced mild elevation of hepatic transaminases within the first 10 days after vaccination; all enzyme elevations returned to normal by day 30 postvaccination.
Finally, mounting evidence exists that persons are most at risk for yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease after their first vaccination.
All cases reported thus far have occurred among such persons.
In addition, clinical studies have demonstrated that mild adverse events after yellow fever vaccination are less common among previously immunized persons (24) and that vaccine viremia is not detectable among those receiving booster doses (30).
Vaccine-Associated Viscerotropic Disease Among U.S.
During 1996--1998, four U.S.
citizens (aged 63, 67, 76, and 79 years) became ill 2--5 days after receiving YF-VAX (17D-204 vaccine) (31).
All four persons required intensive care after they experienced fever, hypotension, respiratory failure, elevated hepatocellular enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, lymphocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; three of the four also experienced renal failure, which required hemodialysis.
Three of the four died.
Blood was available for viral isolation from two of the four patients.
Vaccine-type yellow fever virus was isolated from the blood of both of these patients 7--8 days after vaccination.
Cerebrospinal fluid was also available from one of the two patients.
Virus was isolated from this specimen, which was obtained when the patient experienced encephalitis (31).
Minimal periportal inflammation without hepatocellular necrosis was observed in the liver specimen from the only U.S.
patient who underwent a liver biopsy 28 days after illness onset; IHC revealed limited numbers of Kupffer cells containing yellow fever virus antigen.
In the United States, safety-monitoring data were available for an estimated 1.55 million vaccine doses of YF-VAX (17D-204) vaccine distributed to civilian vaccination centers in the United States during 1990--1998 (40).
During this period, four cases of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease were reported to VAERS, providing an estimated reported incidence of 2.5/1,000,000 (or 1/400,000) doses distributed.
YF-VAX was also administered to approximately 9 million military personnel during the same period of observation (1990--1998).
This estimated incidence based on VAERS might be low because of limitations (e.g., underreporting of cases and imprecise information regarding the number of doses actually administered, including to nonimmune primary vaccinees who appear to be the major, if not only, risk group) (41).
Vaccine-Associated Viscerotropic Disease Among Persons Outside the United States.
In addition to the cases reported in the United States, in 2001, one Australian citizen (aged 56 years) became ill after receiving a 17D-204 yellow fever vaccination (34), and in 1999 and 2000, two Brazilian citizens (aged 5 and 22 years) became ill 3--4 days after receiving 17DD vaccine (35).
Strain 17DD is different from strain 17D-204, which is used in both the United States and Australia, but the two viruses are derived from a common ancestor (17D virus) and are closely related (13).
In the Brazilian and Australian cases, histopathologic changes in the liver included midzonal necrosis, microvesicular fatty change, and Councilman bodies, which are characteristic of wild-type yellow fever.
Yellow fever antigen was identified by IHC in areas of midzonal necrosis in liver specimens from the two 17DD recipients, and flavivirus-like particles consistent with yellow fever virus were identified by electron microscopy in areas of midzonal necrosis in a liver specimen from the 17D-204 recipient.
Yellow fever vaccine virus (17DD or 17D-204) was isolated from blood and autopsy material (i.e., brain, liver, kidney, spleen, lung, skeletal muscle, or skin) from each of these three persons, all of whom died 8--11 days after vaccination.
In Brazil, an estimated 23 million vaccine doses were distributed in vaccination campaigns during the 15-month period in which the two reported cases occurred 6 months apart (42).
Thus, a crude estimate of occurrence for this serious adverse event in Brazil might be 0.09/1,000,000 doses distributed.
However, certain limitations to this estimate exist.
First, the number of doses administered during a vaccination campaign substantially overestimates the true number of persons vaccinated since certain persons receive multiple vaccinations.
Second, experience in Brazil indicates that approximately half of vaccinees are already immune to yellow fever and thus, theoretically, would not be at risk for this adverse event.
And finally, the numerator is only derived from published case studies, not from formal surveillance systems and therefore probably underestimates the true number of cases of this adverse event.
Because mutational changes associated with a reversion to virulence were not detected in the genomes of 17DD vaccine viruses recovered from patients and because these viruses had a vaccine-type phenotype among experimental animals, Brazilian authorities assume that the occurrences are caused by undefined host factors (43).
Additional Case Reports.
Three additional cases of severe adverse events after yellow fever vaccination have been reported in the scientific literature (37--39).
These cases occurred among persons aged 45, 50, and 71 years, and the patients required hospitalization for illness, which was characterized by fever and elevated liver enzymes (37--39) and renal abnormalities (37,38).
All three persons recovered from their illness.
Yellow fever virus was isolated from the blood of the one person tested (38).
Vaccine strain viremia after primary vaccination with yellow fever vaccine frequently occurs among healthy persons, but is usually waning or absent after the first week (2,30).
Two persons were tested for antibodies to yellow fever virus; one of these patients had unusually high levels of yellow fever antibodies (39), and the antibody levels of the other person were described as having increased during the 3 days after administration (38).
Summary of Case Reports.
In the cases from Brazil and Australia, a causal association between yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease and vaccination with 17DD or 17D-204 yellow fever vaccine is supported by histopathologic studies, isolation of genetically stable vaccine-type virus from multiple tissues other than blood, and the temporal relationship between vaccination and illness onset.
Thus, both the 17DD and 17D-204 yellow fever vaccines must be considered as a possible, but rare, cause of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease that is similar to fulminant yellow fever caused by wild-type yellow fever virus.
Accurately measuring the incidence of this rare vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease is impossible because adequate prospective data are unavailable; however, crude estimates of the reported frequency range from 0.09 (in Brazil) to 2.5 (in the United States) per 1,000,000 doses distributed.
The real incidence might be higher (41).
Because of a lack of tissue specimens from the majority of the U.S.
cases of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease, no definitive laboratory support for a causal relationship exists for these cases.
However, the recent receipt of yellow fever vaccination and the similarity of the clinical symptoms among all four U.S.
cases indicate that yellow fever vaccine is a probable cause of the disease in these cases.
Whether and in what way underlying host factors (genetic or acquired) or preexisting clinical conditions might have contributed to the course or outcome of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease is unknown.
Because of recent reports of yellow fever deaths among unvaccinated travelers to areas endemic for yellow fever and of these reports of vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease, physicians should be careful to administer yellow fever vaccine only to persons truly at risk for exposure to yellow fever.
Additional surveillance to better monitor and quantify yellow fever vaccine-specific adverse outcomes should also be established.
Studies are being conducted to clarify the cause and risk factors for these rare adverse events associated with the 17D yellow fever vaccines.
The risk for this complication appears age-related.
Nevertheless, yellow fever remains a key cause of illness and death in South America and sub-Saharan Africa where potential yellow fever transmission zones have expanded to urban areas with substantial populations of susceptible humans and the Ae.
aegypti vector mosquito.
In addition, unvaccinated U.S.
travelers to South America have contracted fatal yellow fever (3,14--18).
Consequently, despite these rare adverse events, yellow fever vaccination of travelers to high-risk areas should be encouraged as a key prevention strategy.
Pregnancy The safety of yellow fever vaccination during pregnancy has not been established, and the vaccine should be administered only if travel to an endemic area is unavoidable and if an increased risk for exposure exists.
On the basis of clinical evaluation of a total of 81 infants in two different studies who were born to mothers vaccinated during pregnancy, infection of the fetus with YF17D apparently occurs at a low rate (i.e., 1 of 81) and has not been associated with congenital anomalies (2,44,45).
In a recent case-control study of women vaccinated with YF 17D during early pregnancy, the relative risk for spontaneous abortion was 2.3, but the difference was not statistically significant (95% confidence interval = 0.65--8.03) (46).
Information from limited clinical trials in Africa and Europe indicates that the risk from vaccination for pregnant women who cannot avoid mosquito exposure in yellow fever-endemic areas is outweighed by the risk for yellow fever infection (44).
If international travel requirements are the only reason to vaccinate a pregnant woman, rather than an increased risk for infection, efforts should be made to obtain a waiver letter from the traveler's physician (Appendix).
Pregnant women who must travel to areas where the risk for yellow fever infection is high should be vaccinated and, despite the apparent safety of this vaccine, infants born to these women should be monitored closely for evidence of congenital infection and other possible adverse effects resulting from yellow fever vaccination.
If vaccination of a pregnant woman is deemed necessary, serologic testing to document an immune response to the vaccine can be considered, because the seroconversion rate for pregnant women in a developing nation has been reported to be substantially lower than that observed for other healthy adults and children (45).
To discuss the need for serologic testing, the appropriate state health department or the Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases (telephone: 970-221-6400) or the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (telephone: 404-498-1600) at CDC should be contacted.
Nursing Mothers Whether this vaccine is excreted in human milk is unknown.
No reports exist of adverse events or transmission of the 17D vaccine viruses from nursing mother to infant.
However, as a precautionary measure, vaccination of nursing mothers should be avoided because of the theoretical risk for the transmission of 17D virus to the breast-fed infant.
When travel of nursing mothers to high-risk yellow fever-endemic areas cannot be avoided or postponed, such persons can be vaccinated.
Altered Immune Status Infection with yellow fever vaccine virus poses a theoretical risk for encephalitis to 1) patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS); 2) patients who are infected with HIV and have other manifestations of HIV infection (32); 3) patients with leukemia, lymphoma, generalized malignancy; or 4) those whose immunologic responses are suppressed by corticosteroids, alkylating drugs, antimetabolites, or radiation.
Such patients should not be vaccinated.
If travel to a yellow fever-infected zone is necessary, patients should be advised of the risks posed by such travel, instructed in methods for avoiding vector mosquitoes, and supplied with vaccination waiver letters by their physicians (Appendix).
Persons who are HIV-infected but do not have AIDS or other symptomatic manifestations of HIV infection, who have established laboratory verification of adequate immune system function, and who cannot avoid potential exposure to yellow fever virus should be offered the choice of vaccination.
Despite the theoretical risk for neuroinvasion and encephalitis, clinical or epidemiologic studies to evaluate the risk for yellow fever vaccination among such recipients have not been reported.
If international travel requirements are the only reason to vaccinate an asymptomatic HIV-infected person, rather than an increased risk for infection, efforts should be made to obtain a waiver letter from the traveler's physician (Appendix).
Asymptomatic HIV-infected persons who must travel to areas where the risk for yellow fever infection is high should be offered the choice of vaccination and monitored closely for possible adverse effects.
Data regarding seroconversion rates after yellow fever vaccination among asymptomatic HIV-infected persons are limited, but they do indicate that the seroconversion rates among such persons is reduced.
Among HIV-infected infants simultaneously vaccinated with a 17D yellow fever and measles vaccines, only 3 of 18 developed neutralizing antibody, compared with 74% of 57 HIV-seronegative infants who simultaneously received the two vaccines (48).
Because vaccination of asymptomatic HIV-infected persons might be less effective than that for persons not infected with HIV, measurement of their neutralizing antibody response to vaccination should be considered before travel.
To discuss the need for serologic testing, the appropriate state health department or the Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases (telephone: 970-221-6400) or the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (telephone: 404-498-1600) at CDC should be contacted.
Family members of immunosuppressed or HIV-infected persons, who themselves have no contraindications, can receive yellow fever vaccine.
Hypersensitivity Yellow fever vaccine is produced in chick embryos and should not be administered to persons hypersensitive to eggs; typically, persons who are able to eat eggs or egg products can receive the vaccine.
If international travel regulations are the only reason to vaccinate a patient hypersensitive to eggs, efforts should be made to obtain a waiver (Appendix).
If vaccination of a person with a questionable history of egg hypersensitivity is considered essential because of a high risk for exposure, an intradermal test dose can be administered under close medical supervision.
Specific directions for skin testing are located in the package insert (49).
Simultaneous Administration of Other Vaccines Determination of whether to administer yellow fever vaccine and other immunobiologics simultaneously should be made on the basis of convenience to the traveler in completing the desired vaccinations before travel and on information regarding possible interference.
The following discussion should help guide these decisions.
Limited clinical studies have demonstrated that the serologic response to yellow fever vaccine is not inhibited by the administration of certain other vaccines concurrently or at intervals of a 1 day--1 month (50).
Measles, smallpox, and yellow fever vaccines have been administered in combination (51,52); Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) and yellow fever vaccines have been administered simultaneously without interference.
Yellow fever vaccine can be administered concurrently with hepatitis A or hepatitis B vaccines (53, 54).
In addition, yellow fever vaccine has been administered concurrently with the typhoid fever vaccine, Typhim Vi® (manufactured by Aventis Pasteur, Inc., Swiftwater, Pennsylvania) and the meningococcal vaccine, Menomune® (Aventis Pasteur, Inc., Swiftwater, Pennsylvania), with no reported evidence of an effect on the immune response to any of the three vaccines individually and no unusual safety problems (55).
No data exist regarding possible interference between yellow fever and rabies or Japanese encephalitis vaccines.
In a prospective study of persons administered yellow fever vaccine and an intramuscular dose of commercially available immune globulin, no alteration of the immunologic response to yellow fever vaccine was detected when compared with controls (56).
Although chloroquine inhibits replication of yellow fever virus in vitro, it does not adversely affect antibody responses to yellow fever vaccine among humans receiving antimalaria prophylaxis (57).
Surveillance and Research Priorities Yellow fever vaccine has been considered to be one of the safest vaccines.
The frequency of the adverse events reported in these recommendations is low enough that, given the relatively limited numbers of yellow fever vaccine doses administered in the United States, sporadic cases of severe adverse events that occurred earlier might not have been appreciated or investigated.
Unfortunately, yellow fever vaccine has been used most widely during outbreaks and in areas where surveillance for vaccine-associated adverse events has been difficult and might have been masked by wild-type yellow fever infections.
The YF17D-associated adverse event reports, combined with the growing momentum for mass vaccination in the wake of increased yellow fever activity, underscore the importance of further investigations to define and quantify YF17D vaccine risks and to characterize their pathogenesis.
Accordingly, the following activities are recommended: Enhanced surveillance for systemic adverse events after yellow fever vaccination should be introduced at U.S.-certified yellow fever vaccination centers and in settings where yellow fever vaccine is administered in other countries.
The majority of yellow fever vaccine administered in the United States is done through the vaccination of U.S.
military personnel and their dependents.
The vaccine safety profile among U.S.
military personnel might not be representative of the U.S.
population at large; however, this population might still serve as an excellent source of additional information in quantifying the risk for adverse events through both retrospective and prospective studies.
Accordingly, the U.S.
military should be encouraged to share information regarding its yellow fever vaccination program, including annual number of doses administered and substantial adverse events that might be related to yellow fever vaccine.
Although neurovirulence assays among primates were required to qualify yellow fever vaccine in different production stages, certain patients described in a recent report exhibited viscerotropic (e.g., hepatic, renal, or cardiac) abnormalities that might not have been detected earlier.
Viscerotropic safety tests consist of assays to measure viremia on days 2, 4, and 6 (2).
Additional tests to monitor hepatic, renal, and cardiac function and injury should be considered.
A protocol for the appropriate clinical, epidemiologic, and laboratory evaluation of cases of viscerotropic or neurotropic disease after yellow fever vaccine should be created.
This protocol should highlight the challenges in establishing causality and emphasize the importance of histopathology, viral isolation, molecular analysis, and virulence testing of samples from patient specimens and vaccine lots.
Additional research is needed to identify host, as well as vaccine-specific, risk factors associated with neurotropic or viscerotropic disease after yellow fever vaccination.
Additional research is also needed to better identify the reasons why certain travelers to yellow fever-endemic areas do not get yellow fever vaccinations.
Related research is needed to develop interventions to decrease the percentage of travelers who are not properly vaccinated.
References World Health Organization.
District guidelines for yellow fever surveillance.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization, 1998.
Publication no.
(WHO/EPI/GEN) 98.09.
Available at 
In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, eds.
Philadelphia, PA: W.B.
Saunders, 1999;815--79.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Amazonas, Brazil, 2002.
MMWR 2002;51:324--5.
Strode GK, ed.
Yellow fever.
New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1951.
Dengue and dengue hemorrhagic fever.
Clin Microbiol Rev 1998;11:480--96.
Vainio J, Cutts F.
Yellow fever.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization, Global Programme for Vaccines and Immunization, 1998.
Publication no.
(WHO/EPI/GEN) 98.11.
Available at 
Van der Stuyft P, Gianella A, and Pirard M, et al.
Urbanisation of yellow fever in Santa Cruz, Bolivia.
Lancet 1999;353:1558--62.
Nasidi A, Monath TP, DeCock K, et al.
Urban yellow fever epidemic in western Nigeria, 1987.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1989;83:401--6.
Facing up to re-emergence of urban yellow fever.
Lancet 1999;353:1541.
Chippaux A, Deubel V, Moreau JP, Reynes JM.
Bull Soc Pathol Exot 1993;86(5 Pt 2):460--4.
Smithburn KC, Durieux C, Koerber R, et al.
Yellow fever vaccination.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization, 1956.
WHO monograph series no.
Barrett AD.
Yellow fever vaccines.
Biologicals 1997;25:17--25.
Pugachev KV, Ocran SW, Guirakhoo F, Furby D, Monath TP.
Heterogeneous nature of the genome of the ARILVAX yellow fever 17D vaccine revealed by consensus sequencing.
Vaccine 2002;20:996--9.
McFarland JM, Baddour LM, Nelson JE, et al.
Imported yellow fever in a United States citizen.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:1143--7.
Fatal yellow fever in a traveler returning from Venezuela, 1999.
MMWR 2000;49:303--5.
Barros ML, Boecken G.
Jungle yellow fever in the central Amazon.
Lancet 1996;348:969--70.
World Health Organization.
Yellow fever, 1998--1999.
Wkly Epidem Rec 2000;75:322--7.
World Health Organization.
Outbreak news: imported case of yellow fever, Belgium (update).
Wkly Epidem Rec 2001;76:365.
Health information for international travel 2001--2002.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, 2001.
Available at 
Groot H, Ribeiro RB.
Neutralizing and haemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies to yellow fever 17 years after vaccination with 17D vaccine.
Bull World Health Organ 1962;27:669--707.
Poland JD, Calisher CH, Monath TP, Downs WG, Murphy K.
Persistence of neutralizing antibody 30--35 years after immunization with 17D yellow fever vaccine.
Bull World Health Organ 1981;59:895--900.
Rosenzweig EC, Babione RW, Wisseman CL Jr.
Immunological studies with group B arthropod-borne viruses.
Persistence of yellow fever antibodies following vaccination with 17D strain yellow fever vaccine.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1963;12:230--5.
Niedrig M, Lademann M, Emmerich P, Lafrenz M.
Assessment of IgG antibodies against yellow fever virus after vaccination with 17D by different assays: neutralization test, haemagglutination inhibition test, immunofluorescence assay and ELISA.
Trop Med Int Health 1999;4:867--71.
Monath TP, Nichols R, Archambault WT, et al.
Comparative safety and immunogenicity of two yellow fever 17D vaccines (ARILVAX and YF-VAX) in a Phase III multicenter, double-blind clinical trial.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2002;66;533--41.
Lang J, Zuckerman J, Clarke P, Barrett P, Kirkpatrick C, Blondeau C.
Comparison of the immunogenicity and safety of two 17D yellow fever vaccines.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1999;60:1045--50.
Kelso JM, Mootrey GT, Tsai TF.
Anaphylaxis from yellow fever vaccine.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1999;103:698--701.
Kelso JM, Jones RT, Yunginger JW.
Anaphylaxis to measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine mediated by IgE to gelatin.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1993;91:867--72.
Sakaguchi M, Nakayama T, Inouye S.
Food allergy to gelatin in children with systemic immediate-type reactions, including anaphylaxis, to vaccines.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1996;98(6 Pt 1):1058--61.
Sakaguchi M, Yamanaka T, Ikeda K, et al.
IgE-mediated systemic reactions to gelatin included in the varicella vaccine.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 1997;99:263--4.
Reinhardt B, Jaspert R, Niedrig M, Kostner C, L'age-Stehr J.
Development of viremia and humoral and cellular parameters of immune activation after vaccination with yellow fever virus strain 17D: a model of human flavivirus infection.
J Med Virol 1996:56:159--67.
Martin M, Tsai TF, Cropp B, et al.
Fever and multisystem organ failure associated with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccination: a report of four cases.
Lancet 2001;358:98--104.
Kengsakul K, Sathirapongsasuti K, Punyagupta S.
Fatal myeloencephalitis following yellow fever vaccination in a case with HIV infection.
J Med Assoc Thai 2002;85:131--4.
Fatal viral encephalitis following 17D yellow fever vaccine inoculation: report of a case in a 3-year-old child.
JAMA 1966;198:671--2.
Chan RC, Penney DJ, Little D, Carter IW, Roberts JA, Rawlinson WD.
Hepatitis and death following vaccination with 17D-204 yellow fever vaccine.
Lancet 2001;358:121--2.
Vasconcelos PFC, Luna EJ, Galler R, et al.
Serious adverse events associated with yellow fever 17DD vaccine in Brazil: report of two cases.
Lancet 2001;358:91--7.
Fever, jaundice, and multiple organ system failure associated with 17D-derived yellow fever vaccination, 1996--2001.
MMWR 2001;50:643--5.
Adhiyaman V, Oke A, Cefai C.
Lancet 2001;358;1907--8.
Troillet N, Laurencet F.
Lancet 2001;358;1908--9.
Werfel U, Popp W.
Lancet 2001;358;1909.
Martin M, Weld LH, Tsai TF, et al.
Advanced age a risk factor for adverse events temporally associated with yellow fever vaccination.
Emerg Infect Dis 2001;6:945--51.
Rosenthal S, Chen R.
Reporting sensitivities of two passive surveillance systems for vaccine adverse events.
Am J Public Health 1995;85:1706--9.
Organizacion Panamericana de la Salud, Division of Vaccines and Immunization and Centro Nacional de Epidemiologia CENEPI/FUNASA/MS-Brasil.
Serious adverse events associated with yellow fever 17D vaccine.
Meeting of the Group of Experts on Yellow Fever; Brasilia, Brazil, May 10--11, 2000.
Pan American Health Organization, 2000.
Galler R, Pugachev KV, Santos CL, et al.
Phenotypic and molecular analyses of yellow fever 17 DD vaccine viruses associated with serious adverse events in Brazil.
Virology 2001;290:309--19.
Tsai TF, Paul R, Lynberg MC, Letson GW.
Congenital yellow fever virus infection after immunization in pregnancy.
J Infect Dis 1993;168:1520--3.
Nasidi A, Monath TP, Vandenberg J, et al.
Yellow fever vaccination and pregnancy: a four-year prospective study.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 1993;87:337--9.
Nishioka S de A, Nunes-Araujo FR, Pires WP, Silva FA,Costa HL.
Yellow fever vaccination during pregnancy and spontaneous abortion: a case-control study.
Trop Med Int Health 1998;3:29--33.
Goujon C, Tohr M, Feuille V, Coulaud JP, Dupont B, San-Sonetti P.
Presented at the 4th International Conference on Travel Medicine, Acapulco, Mexico, April 23--27, 1995.
Sibailly TS, Wiktor SZ, Tsai TF, et al.
Poor antibody response to yellow fever vaccination in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1997;16:1177--9.
Aventis Pasteur, Inc.
Swiftwater, PA: Aventis Pasteur, Inc., 2001.
Stefano I, Sato HK, Pannuti CS, et al.
Recent immunization against measles does not interfere with the sero-response to yellow fever vaccine.
Vaccine 1999;17:1042--6.
Ruben FL, Smith EA, Foster SO.
Simultaneous administration of smallpox, measles, yellow fever, and diptheria-pertussis-tetanus antigens to Nigerian children.
Bull World Health Organ 1973;48:175--81.
Tauraso NM, Myers MG, Nau EV, et al.
Effect of interval between inoculation of live smallpox and yellow fever vaccines on antigenicity in man.
J Infect Dis 1972;126:363--71.
Dumas R, Forrat R, Lang J, Farinelli T, Loutan L.
Safety and immunogenicity of a new inactivated hepatitis A vaccine and concurrent administration with a typhoid fever vaccine or a typhoid fever + yellow fever vaccine.
Adv Therapy 1997;14;160--7.
Yvonnet B, Coursaget P, Deubel V, et al.
Simultaneous administration of hepatis B and yellow fever vaccines.
J Med Virol 1986;19:307--11.
Dukes C, Froeschle J, George J et al.
Presented at the 36th International Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 1996.
Kaplan JE, Nelson DB, Schonberger LB, et al.
Effect of immune globulin on trivalent oral polio and yellow fever vaccinations.
Bull World Health Organ 1984;62:585--90.
Tsai TF, Bolin RA, Lazuick JS, Miller KD.
J Infect Dis 1986;154:726.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Yellow Book EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Health Care Providers About Table of Contents Preparing Travelers Travelers with Additional Considerations Environmental Hazards and Risks Travel-Related Infections and Diseases Health Care Abroad Family Travel Travel by Air and Sea Travel for Work and Other Reasons Refugees, Immigrants, and Migrants Post-Travel Evaluation Africa and the Middle East The Americas and the Caribbean Asia Template Letters Maps VIEW ALL View All Scuba Diving: Decompression Illness and Other Dive-Related Injuries Health Care Providers APR.
23, 2025 PURPOSE Publication name: CDC Yellow Book: Health Information for International Travel Edition: 2026 Chapter authors: James Chimiak and Daniel A.
Nord Top takeaway: Healthcare professionals should educate divers on decompression illness and safe diving practices.
Introduction There are estimates of 0.6–3.5 million scuba divers in the United States that range from the regular to the occasional diver, with many traveling to remote tropical areas of the world to dive.
Divers face a variety of medical challenges, but because dive injuries generally are rare, few healthcare professionals are trained to prevent, diagnose, or treat them.
Therefore, the onus is on recreational divers to assess potential risks before diving, to be prepared to recognize signs of injury, and to seek qualified dive medicine help promptly when needed.
Preparing for dive travel When counseling travelers who are planning dive-related trips, take into consideration chronic health conditions, any recent changes in health (e.g., injuries, pregnancy, surgeries), and medication use (see Travelers with Chronic Illnesses chapter).
Divers Alert Network (DAN) is a resource to access for assistance with a diver (Box 3.4.1).
Underlying respiratory conditions (e.g., asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, infections, history of spontaneous pneumothorax) can challenge the breathing capacity required of divers.
Mental health disorders (e.g., anxiety, claustrophobia, substance abuse) and disorders affecting central nervous system higher function and consciousness (e.g., seizures) raise special concerns about diving fitness.
While it is important to review patient medications for possible compatibility with diving, there are no scientific data that support the safe use of drugs while diving.
Thus, the primary concerns are generally the underlying condition for which the patient takes medication, clinical stability on the drug, and the potential for unsafe adverse reactions.
Considering and acting upon a list of non-diving-related conditions and medication effects is important because they may be overlooked when evaluating a diver.
Diving is a potentially strenuous activity that can put substantial demands on the cardiovascular system.
Serious injury and death are associated with poor physical conditioning; regular, vigorous aerobic and strengthening exercise should be part of a diver's routine before arriving for their pre-dive physical examination and subsequent diving.
People with known risk factors for coronary artery disease, including, but not limited to, diabetes, hypertension, family history of heart disease, an abnormal lipid profile, smoking history, and significant frailty index indicators, who wish to either begin a dive program or continue diving, should undergo a physical examination to assess their cardiovascular fitness.
This examination might include an electrocardiogram, pulmonary function testing, exercise treadmill test, or echocardiogram.
Abnormal findings should be reviewed by an appropriate medical specialist (e.g., cardiologist, pulmonologist) and include a diving medicine physician.
During the travel medicine examination, remind divers (and would-be divers) of actions they can take in advance to reduce or eliminate risks.
Identifying and assessing potential hazards (e.g., environment, water, and weather conditions, planned depth and bottom time) can help divers make decisions about acceptable risk.
Preparing for a safe dive also includes having an up-to-date emergency action plan, on-hand first aid supplies (with ample oxygen), and reliable communication devices.
Using correct and well-maintained protective equipment, diving with supervision, and ensuring that medical care is available in the event of an emergency are other controls that divers can implement.
A diver should never feel compelled to make a dive, especially if feeling unwell or if conditions are unsafe.
Of special note, many dive operators routinely screen clients by requiring a medical statement signed by the diver's physician with approval to dive.
Divers should communicate with their dive operator ahead of travel to acquire the necessary form to share with their personal physician.
By being prepared with properly signed documentation upon arrival at their dive destination, the traveling diver can forestall denial of dive privileges.
In the event of an abnormal finding, the condition needs to be evaluated by their physician as to whether that condition is compatible with diving before travel to the dive site.
Guidance can be obtained on both the DAN and Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society (UHMS) websites, with the option of contacting DAN directly if further help is needed.
Box 3.4.1 Divers alert network Divers Alert Network (DAN) maintains 24-hour emergency consultation and evacuation assistance at +1-919-684-9111 (collect calls accepted).
DAN can help with the medical management of injured divers by deciding if recompression is needed, providing the location of the closest recompression facility, and arranging patient transport.
Divers and healthcare professionals also can contact DAN for routine, non-emergency consultation by telephone at 919-684-2948, extension 6222, or by accessing the DAN website.
Diving disorders Barotrauma Barotrauma is an injury to soft tissues resulting from a pressure differential between an airspace in the body and the ambient pressure.
The resultant expansion or contraction of that space can cause injury.
Ear and sinus The most common injury in divers is middle ear barotrauma, or "middle ear squeeze" (Box 3.4.2).
On descent, failure to equalize pressure changes within the middle ear space creates a pressure gradient across the eardrum.
As the middle ear tissues swell with edema, a consequence of the increased pressure on the tissue surrounding this air space, some relative negative pressure difference across the eardrum can persist.
Despite these fluid/edematous tissue injury responses, the eardrum is still pushed into the middle ear space, causing pain, bleeding, and possibly rupture and even injury to the inner ear.
Forceful equalization under these conditions can increase the pressure differential between the inner ear and the middle ear, resulting in round window rupture with perilymph leakage and inner ear damage.
To avoid these pathologic processes, divers must learn proper equalization techniques.
Healthcare professionals can coach this effort by observing movement of the tympanic membrane using simple otoscopy.
Paranasal sinuses, because of their relatively narrow connecting passageways, are especially susceptible to barotrauma, generally on descent.
With small changes in pressure (depth), symptoms are usually mild and subacute but can be exacerbated by continued diving.
Larger pressure changes can be more injurious, especially with forceful attempts at equilibration (e.g., the Valsalva maneuver).
Additional risk factors for ear and sinus barotrauma include: Use of solid earplugs Medication (e.g., overuse or prolonged use of decongestants leading to rebound congestion) Ear or sinus surgery Nasal deformity or polyps Chronic nasal and sinus disease that interferes with equilibration during the large barometric pressure changes encountered while diving Divers who suspect they have ear or sinus barotrauma should discontinue diving and seek medical attention.
Box 3.4.2 Symptoms of ear barotrauma Decreased hearing Pain Sensation of fullness Sensation of "water in the ear" (serous fluid/blood accumulation in the middle ear) Tinnitus (ringing in the ears) Vertigo (dizziness or sensation of spinning) Pulmonary Scuba divers can reduce the risk for lung overpressure problems by breathing normally and ascending slowly when breathing compressed gas.
Overexpansion of the lungs can result if a scuba diver ascends toward the surface without exhaling, which can happen, for example, when a novice diver panics and kicks back toward the surface.
During ascent, compressed gas trapped in the lung increases in volume until the expansion exceeds the elastic limit of lung tissue, causing damage and allowing gas bubbles to escape into 3 possible locations: the pleural space, mediastinum, or pulmonary vasculature.
Gas entering the pleural space can cause lung collapse or pneumothorax.
Gas entering the mediastinum causes mediastinal emphysema and frequently tracks under the skin (subcutaneous emphysema) or into the tissue around the larynx, sometimes precipitating a change in voice characteristics.
Gas rupturing the alveolar walls can enter the pulmonary capillaries and pass via the pulmonary veins to the left side of the heart, resulting in arterial gas embolism (AGE).
Mediastinal or subcutaneous emphysema might resolve spontaneously, but pneumothorax generally requires specific treatment to remove the air and reinflate the lung.
AGE is a medical emergency, requiring urgent intervention with hyperbaric oxygen therapy (recompression treatment).
Lung overinflation injuries from scuba diving can range from mild to dramatic and life threatening.
Although pulmonary barotrauma is uncommon in divers, prompt medical evaluation is necessary, and healthcare professionals must rule out this condition in patients presenting with post-dive respiratory or neurologic symptoms shortly after surfacing.
Decompression illness Decompression illness (DCI) describes bubble-related dysbaric injuries, including AGE and decompression sickness (DCS).
Because scientists consider these 2 conditions to result from separate causes, they are described here separately.
From a clinical and practical standpoint, however, distinguishing between them in the field might be impossible and unnecessary because the initial treatment is the same for both (Table 3.4.1).
DCI can occur even in divers who have carefully followed the standard decompression tables and the principles of safe diving.
Serious permanent injury or death can result from AGE or DCS.
Table 3.4.1: Decompression illness syndromes and clinical manifestations Arterial Gas Embolism Decompression Sickness Ataxia Blurred vision Chest pain or bloody sputum Convulsions Dizziness Loss of consciousness Muscular weakness Numbness or paresthesia paralysis Personality change, difficulty thinking, or confusion Collapse or unconsciousness Coughing spasms or shortness of breath Dizziness Itching Joint aches or pain Loss of bowel or bladder function Mottling or marbling of skin Numbness or tingling Paralysis Personality changes Staggering, loss of coordination, or tremors Unusual fatigue Weakness Arterial gas embolism Gas entering the arterial blood through ruptured pulmonary vessels can distribute bubbles into the body tissues, including the heart and brain, where they can disrupt circulation or damage vessel walls.
The clinical presentation of AGE ranges from minimal neurologic findings to dramatic symptoms requiring urgent and aggressive hyperbaric oxygen treatment.
In general, suspect AGE in any scuba diver who surfaces unconscious or loses consciousness within 10 minutes after surfacing.
Initiate basic life support, including administration of the highest fraction of oxygen.
Because relapses can and do occur, divers suffering AGE should be rapidly evacuated to a hyperbaric oxygen treatment facility even if they appear to have recovered fully.
Decompression sickness ("the bends") Breathing air under pressure causes excess inert gas (usually nitrogen) to dissolve in and saturate body tissues.
The amount of gas dissolved is proportional to, and increases with, the total depth and time a diver is below the surface.
Depending on the amount of gas dissolved and the rate of ascent, some gas can supersaturate tissues, where it separates from solution to form bubbles, interfering with blood flow and tissue oxygenation.
This excess dissolved gas must be cleared through respiration.
Other conditions related to diving Drowning Any incapacitation while underwater can result in drowning.
Hazardous marine life Oceans and waterways are filled with marine animals, most of which are generally harmless unless threatened.
Most injuries among divers are the result of chance encounters or defensive maneuvers of marine life.
Wounds from marine life have many common characteristics, including bacterial contamination, foreign bodies, bleeding, and occasionally envenomation.
See Zoonotic Exposures: Bites, Scratches, and Other Hazards and Poisonings, Envenomations, and Toxic Exposures During Travel for prevention and injury-management recommendations.
Immersion (induced) pulmonary edema The normal hemodynamic effects of water immersion account for a shift of fluid from peripheral to central circulation that can result in higher pressures within the pulmonary capillary bed, forcing excess fluid into the lungs.
Cold water can cause peripheral vasoconstriction and augment this central fluid shift.
Symptoms and signs of immersion (induced) pulmonary edema (IPE) generally begin on descent or at depth and include chest pain, dyspnea, wheezing, and productive cough with frothy, sometimes pink-tinged sputum.
Although not entirely well understood, age, overhydration, overexertion, negative inspiratory pressure, and left ventricular hypertrophy are believed to increase IPE risk in otherwise healthy divers.
Anyone experiencing acute pulmonary edema while diving requires a workup to rule out myocardial ischemia and evaluation of left ventricular function, hypertrophy, and valvular integrity.
Nitrogen narcosis can be life threatening when it impairs a diver's ability to make appropriate and proper decisions while underwater.
This narcosis quickly clears on ascent and is not seen on the surface after a dive, which helps differentiate this condition from DCI.
Oxygen toxicity At increasing partial pressures of oxygen, levels in the blood can become high enough to cause seizures.
This condition is not seen when diving with compressed air within recreational depth limits.
Seizure has been reported with diving that involves elevated partial pressures of oxygen that might occur breathing gas with a higher percentage of oxygen, oxygen decompression, or closed-circuit rebreather diving.
Preventing diving disorders Recreational divers should dive conservatively and well within the no-decompression limits of their dive tables or computers.
When multiple dives are planned, strict guidelines, known as surface intervals, are prescribed to allow adequate time for dissolved inert gas to drop to acceptable levels before the next dive.
Tables derived from human-tested algorithms have traditionally been used by divers to manually calculate dive times and surface intervals.
Dive computers possess the reliability and computing power to use the same algorithms and compute individual guidance based on real-time depth and time inputs.
Dive computers have largely replaced the use of tables for the manual process of dive planning.
Risk factors for DCI are primarily dive depth, dive time, and rates of ascent.
Caution divers to stay well-hydrated and rested and dive within the limits of their training.
Diving is a skill that requires training and certification and should be done with a well-trained, attentive companion (i.e., dive buddy).
Treatment of diving disorders Definitive treatment of DCI begins with early recognition of symptoms, followed by recompression with hyperbaric oxygen.
Be suspicious of any unusual symptoms occurring soon after a dive, especially neurological symptoms, and evaluate these properly.
Provide a high concentration (100%) of supplemental oxygen; surface-level oxygen given for first aid might relieve the signs and symptoms of DCI and should be administered as soon as possible.
Divers are often dehydrated because of incidental causes, immersion, or DCI itself, which can cause capillary leakage.
In most cases, treatment includes administering isotonic glucose-free intravenous fluids.
Oral rehydration fluids also can be helpful if they can be administered safely (i.e., if the diver is conscious and can maintain their airway).
The definitive treatment of DCI is recompression and oxygen administration in a hyperbaric chamber.
Stable or remitting symptoms of mild DCI (e.g., constitutional symptoms, some cutaneous sensory changes, limb pain, or rash) in divers reporting from remote locations without a hyperbaric facility might not require recompression.
Medical management decisions made with the assistance of a qualified dive medicine physician also should account for the prevailing circumstances, logistics and hazards of evacuation, and the implications of failing to recompress.
Serial neurologic exams are essential to the decision-making process.
Travelers who plan to scuba dive should ascertain whether recompression facilities are available at their destination before embarking on their trip, especially if there are significant risk factors or if planning long, deep, or multi-day repetitive dives.
Diving and air travel Flying after diving The risk of developing decompression sickness increases when divers ascend to increased altitude too soon after a dive.
Commercial aircraft cabins are generally pressurized to the equivalent of approximately 1,830–2,440 m (6,000–8,000 ft) above sea level.
These recommended waiting periods following various dive exposures are: ≥12 hours after surfacing from a single no-decompression dive ≥18 hours after multiple dives or multiple days of diving 24–48 hours after a dive that required decompression stops These recommended pre-flight surface intervals reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk for DCS.
Longer surface intervals further reduce this risk.
Symptomatic divers should seek evaluation to rule out possible decompression illness before attempting any exposure to increased altitude.
A diagnosis of decompression illness generally requires appropriate treatment before any flight or ascent to altitude.
Diving after flying There are no guidelines for diving after flying.
Divers should wait a sufficient period to acclimate mentally and physically to their new location to focus solely on the dive.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Preparing for dive travel Diving disorders Preventing diving disorders Treatment of diving disorders Diving and air travel RELATED PAGES Environmental Hazards and Risks Heat and Cold Illness in Travelers Air Quality and Ionizing Radiation High-Altitude Travel Mosquitoes, Ticks, and Other Arthropods VIEW ALL Yellow Book High-Altitude Travel SOURCES PRINT SHARE Yellow Book CDC Yellow Book is a resource for healthcare professionals providing care to international travelers.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Español | Other Languages
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sepsis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes VER TODO Ver todo ENGLISH (US) Buscar información Para todos Sepsis Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes ¿No encontró la información que buscaba?
Temas de salud de la A a la Z Sepsis La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Es una emergencia médica potencialmente mortal.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sepsis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes VER TODO Ver todo Para todos 19 ABRIL DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Materiales sobre sepsis en español Encargue materiales de Gánele a la septicemia gratis Puede encargar los materiales de dos maneras: Visite CDC-Info On Demand – Publications y seleccione "Sepsis" (Septicemia) del menú desplegable bajo "Programs" (Programas), y luego haga clic en el botón "Go" (Ir).
Llame al 1-800-CDC-INFO.
Hoja informativa, folleto e infografía Use estos materiales para obtener más información sobre los riesgos, los signos y síntomas, y las formas en que usted y su familia le pueden ganar a la septicemia: Folleto: Es hora de hablar sobre la septicemia Fact Sheet ¿Cómo le puedo ganar a la septicemia?
Descargar Cuatro maneras de ganarle a la septicemia Las infecciones los ponen a usted y a su familia en riesgo de tener una afección potencialmente mort...
Descargar Compartir Comparta estos videos y estas gráficas con otros personas.
Esta información podría salvar una vida.
Expandir todo Videos MP4s para Instagram Gráficas para Facebook Gráficas para Twitter / X EN ESTA PÁGINA Encargue materiales de Gánele a la septicemia gratis Hoja informativa, folleto e infografía Compartir FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sepsis La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Es una emergencia médica potencialmente mortal.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sepsis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Información Básica Sobre Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes VER TODO Ver todo Para todos EL 18 ABRIL DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Información Básica Sobre Sepsis PUNTOS CLAVE La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Conozca los riesgos.
Reconozca los signos.
Actúe rápido.
MORE INFORMATION For Everyone Health Care Providers Public Health Información general La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Es una emergencia médica potencialmente mortal.
La septicemia ocurre cuando una infección que se tiene provoca una reacción en cadena por todo el cuerpo.
Las infecciones que causan septicemia suelen comenzar en los pulmones, las vías urinarias, la piel o el tubo digestivo.
Sin tratamiento oportuno, puede causar rápidamente daño en los tejidos, insuficiencia orgánica y la muerte.
Cualquier persona puede contraer una infección y casi cualquier infección, incluida la del COVID-19, puede causar septicemia.
Cada año, al menos 1.7 millones de adultos en los Estados Unidos presentan septicemia.
Al menos 350 000 adultos que presentan septicemia mueren durante su hospitalización o reciben el alta para ir a un centro de cuidados paliativos.
1 de cada 3 pacientes que muere en el hospital tuvo septicemia durante esa hospitalización.
Signos y síntomas Una persona con septicemia podría tener uno o más de los siguientes signos o síntomas: Frecuencia cardiaca rápida, o pulso bajo o débil.
Fiebre, escalofríos o sensación de mucho frío.
Confusión o desorientación.
Dificultad para respirar.
Molestias o dolor extremo.
Piel sudorosa o húmeda.
Se necesita que un profesional de la salud haga una evaluación médica para confirmar la septicemia.
Quiénes están en riesgo Cualquier persona puede presentar septicemia, pero algunas personas tienen un mayor riesgo de presentarla: Adultos de 65 años o más.
Personas con el sistema inmunitario debilitado.
Personas con afecciones crónicas, como diabetes, enfermedad pulmonar, cáncer y enfermedad de los riñones.
Personas que recientemente tuvieron una enfermedad grave o estuvieron hospitalizadas, incluso debido al COVID-19 grave.
Personas que sobrevivieron a la septicemia.
Niños menores de un año.
Causas La septicemia no se puede transmitir a otras personas.
Sin embargo, las infecciones pueden causarla, y algunas de esas infecciones sí se pueden transmitir a otras personas.
Las infecciones los pueden poner a usted y a su familia en riesgo de tener una afección potencialmente mortal llamada septicemia.
Cuando entran microbios al cuerpo de una persona, estos pueden causar una infección.
Si usted no detiene esa infección, puede causar septicemia.
La mayoría de los casos de septicemia son causados por infecciones bacterianas.
La septicemia también puede ser el resultado de otras infecciones, incluidas las infecciones virales, como la del COVID-19 o la influenza (gripe), o infecciones fúngicas.
Prevención Puede tomar medidas específicas para reducir su riesgo de tener septicemia, incluida la causada por el COVID-19.
1 Prevenir las infecciones Pregúntele a un profesional de atención médica qué medidas puede tomar para prevenir las infecciones que podrían causar septicemia.
Otras medidas incluyen: Controlar bien las afecciones crónicas.
Ponerse las vacunas recomendadas, ya que estas previenen algunas infecciones, pero no curan la septicemia.
2 Practicar una buena higiene Lávese las manos.
Mantenga los cortes y las heridas limpios, y cúbralos con vendas hasta que sanen.
3 Conocer los signos y síntomas de septicemia Una persona con septicemia podría tener uno o más de los siguientes signos o síntomas: Frecuencia cardiaca rápida o pulso débil Fiebre, escalofríos o sensación de mucho frío Confusión o desorientación Dificultad para respirar Molestias o dolor extremo Piel sudorosa o húmeda 4 ACTUAR RÁPIDO La septicemia es una emergencia médica.
Si usted o un ser querido tienen una infección que no está mejorando, o que empeora, ACTÚE RÁPIDO.
Busque atención médica INMEDIATAMENTE.
Pregúntele al profesional de atención médica: "¿podría esta infección causar septicemia?", y si debería ir a la sala de emergencias.
¿Qué debo hacer si sospecho un caso de septicemia?
‎ La septicemia es una emergencia médica.
Si usted o un ser querido tienen una infección que no está mejorando, o que empeora, ACTÚE RÁPIDO.
Busque atención médica INMEDIATAMENTE.
Pregúntele al profesional de atención médica, "¿podría esta infección causar septicemia?", y si debería ir a la sala de emergencias.
Si tiene una emergencia médica, llame al 911.
Si tiene o cree que tiene septicemia, dígaselo al operador.
Si tiene, o cree que tiene COVID-19, también dígaselo al operador.
De ser posible, póngase una mascarilla antes de que llegue la ayuda médica.
Con una identificación y tratamiento rápidos, la mayoría de las personas sobreviven.
El tratamiento requiere atención médica de urgencia, generalmente en una unidad de cuidados intensivos en un hospital, e incluye monitorear atentamente los signos vitales y generalmente antibióticos.
Diagnóstico Los profesionales de atención médica diagnostican la septicemia mediante múltiples hallazgos físicos, como los siguientes: Fiebre Presión arterial baja Mayor frecuencia cardiaca Dificultad para respirar También ordenan pruebas de laboratorio para determinar si hay signos de infección o de daño a los órganos.
Algunas de estas pruebas se usan para identificar el microbio causante de la infección que provocó la septicemia.
Estas pruebas podrían incluir cultivos de sangre a fin de detectar las infecciones bacterianas o pruebas de detección de infecciones virales, como el COVID-19 o la influenza.
Tratamiento Las investigaciones muestran que el tratamiento rápido y eficaz contra la septicemia incluye: La administración del tratamiento apropiado, incluidos los antibióticos.
El mantenimiento del flujo sanguíneo a los órganos.
A veces, se necesita una operación para remover los tejidos dañados por la infección.
Los profesionales de atención médica deberían tratar la septicemia con antibióticos lo antes posible.
Los antibióticos son herramientas para el tratamiento de las infecciones potencialmente mortales, como aquellas que pueden causar la septicemia.
Sin embargo, a medida que aumenta la resistencia a los antibióticos, las infecciones se están haciendo más difíciles de tratar.
Los efectos secundarios de los antibióticos varían desde leves, como sarpullido, mareo, náuseas, diarrea e infecciones por hongos, hasta problemas de salud muy graves, como reacciones alérgicas potencialmente mortales o infecciones por C.
difficile (también llamada C.
diff) que causan diarrea grave y pueden provocar daño grave al colon o la muerte.
Sin embargo, cuando los antibióticos son necesarios, los beneficios generalmente superan los riesgos de que produzcan efectos secundarios o resistencia a estos medicamentos.
Mejorar la manera en la que los profesionales de atención médica recetan los antibióticos, así como la manera en la que los usamos, ayuda a mantener a todos sanos ahora, a combatir la resistencia a los antibióticos y a garantizar que estos medicamentos, que salvan vidas, funcionen cuando usted u otras personas más los necesiten; por ejemplo, para el tratamiento de infecciones asociadas a la septicemia.
Qué están haciendo los CDC Los CDC ofrecen recursos educativos gratuitos para ayudar a prevenir las infecciones que pueden causar septicemia o, en los casos de septicemia, a reconocerla temprano.
Recursos SEGUIR LEYENDO: Materiales sobre sepsis en español EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Signos y síntomas Quiénes están en riesgo Causas Prevención Diagnóstico Tratamiento Qué están haciendo los CDC Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes VER TODO Sepsis Materiales de Gánele a la septicemia para los pacientes FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Sepsis La septicemia es una respuesta extrema del cuerpo a una infección.
Es una emergencia médica potencialmente mortal.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern Search Diagnostic Procedures Print DPDx is an education resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention and control visit 
Please choose from one of the categories below.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: September 30, 2025 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Blood Specimens plus icon Stool Specimens plus icon Serum/Plasma Specimens plus icon Other Specimens plus icon Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern Search Stool Specimens – Centrifugal Flotation for Intestinal Parasites Print Notes on method: Centrifugal flotation effectively concentrates fertilized eggs of Ascaris species, Trichuris species, hookworm, Hymenolepis species and Enterobius vermicularis.
Cysts of protozoa and some helminth eggs may become distorted in the hyperosmolar environment after 20 minutes.
Larvae of Strongyloides species, eggs of Taenia species, schistosomes and many other cestode and trematode eggs may not be detected by this method.
Each flotation solution have variable efficacy for individual parasite species and references should be consulted before choosing the ideal solution for detecting specific parasites.
For fresh, unpreserved stool, dilute the specimen 1:1 in physiological saline.
Mix the specimen well.
Strain 5 mL of the fecal suspension (more or less depending on its consistency) through wetted cheesecloth-type gauze placed over a disposable paper funnel into a 15 mL conical centrifuge tube.
(Conical paper cups with the tips cut off are sufficient).
Remaining suspension can be stirred and pressed gently with an applicator stick through the gauze.
Add 0.85% saline or 10% formalin through the debris on the gauze to bring the volume in the centrifuge tube to 15 mL.
Distilled or tap water may be used; however this may deform or destroy Blastocystis species.
Centrifuge at 500 × g for 10 minutes.
Decant supernatant.
Add 10 mL of flotation solution to the sediment and mix thoroughly with wooden applicator sticks.
Centrifuge at 500 × g for 5 minutes, allow the centrifuge to stop without using the brake.
Carefully remove the tube from the centrifuge without disturbing the pellet, place in a rack.
Avoiding disturbing the surface, add sufficient flotation solution to completely fill the 15 mL tube, ensuring a slightly convex meniscus is formed.
Place a 15 mm x 15 mm coverslip over the meniscus.
Set a timer for 10 minutes.
After 10 minutes flotation, carefully remove the cover slip, ensuring that a drop of solution remains hanging from the coverlsip, and place this on a microscope slide.
Perform microscopy for parasites within 15 minutes of preparing the microscope slide.
Preparation of Flotation Solutions Mix salt in distilled water using a heat block and magnetic stirrer until no more salt will dissolve.
Allow to cool and any remaining undissolved salt to sediment in the bottle prior to use.
For Sheather’s sucrose, formaldehyde or phenol can be added to a concentration of 1.5% for preservation.
Solution Zinc Sulfate (ZNSO4) Sodium Nitrate (NaNO3) Saturated Salt (NaCl) Sheather’s Sucrose (C12H22O11) Magnesium Sulfate (MgSO4) Volume in 1L H2O 330 g 315 g 350 g 1,278 g 350 g Specific Gravity 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.27 1.28 Table: Volume of flotation salt solution required for the preparation of specific flotation solutions.
The flotation solution a laboratory chooses to use should be informed by the relative sensitivity of that solution in detecting the parasitic pathogens sought.
Quality Control Use a hydrometer to test the specific gravity of solutions.
Perform this QC once weekly or whenever a new batch of flotation solution is prepared.
DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: August 2, 2018 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Parasites SEARCH About Causes Diagnosis Caring for Yourself and Others Children Travelers Communication Resources DPDM Features VIEW ALL Global NTD Programs President Carter's lasting legacy to control and eradicate NTDs, including Guinea worm disease.
Learn More World Malaria Day 2024 World Malaria Day 2024: Leading with Malaria Control Innovation in Mind World NTD Day 2024: Unite.
The theme for 2024's World Neglected Tropical Disease Day is "Unite.
Eliminate." A-Z Index Parasitic Diseases A–Z Index: More information about specific parasites Parasitic Topics About A parasite is an organism (a living thing) that lives on or inside another organism.
Specific-Groups Information for health professionals, women, children, travelers, and more Diagnosis Many kinds of lab tests are available to diagnose parasitic diseases.
More on Parasitic Disease and Malaria About Malaria Malaria is a serious disease caused by a parasite that infects a certain type of mosquito.
Causes Education & Training Glossary Resources Healthy Water CDC: Traveler’s Health DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasitic Diseases Communication Resources DPDM Features Neglected Tropical Diseases Caring for Yourself and Others Travelers Contact Us Parasites A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Parasites EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Causes Diagnosis Caring for Yourself and Others Children Travelers Communication Resources DPDM Features Women and Parasites Glossary Contact Us A-Z Index VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Laboratory Information CDC Bottle Bioassay Epi Info Vector Surveillance Application Chagas Disease: Optimizing Care for Pregnant Women and Children VIEW ALL View All NOVEMBER 14, 2024 ESPAÑOL About Parasites KEY POINTS A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host.
There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites.
Protozoa Protozoa are microscopic, one-celled organisms that can be free-living or parasitic in nature.
They are able to multiply in humans, which contributes to their survival and also permits serious infections to develop from just a single organism.
Transmission of protozoa that live in a human's intestine to another human typically occurs through a fecal-oral route (for example, contaminated food or water or person-to-person contact).
Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly).
Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan.
A microscope is necessary to view this parasite.
Credit: CDC.
The protozoa that are infectious to humans can be classified into four groups based on their mode of movement: Sarcodina – the ameba, e.g., Entamoeba Mastigophora – the flagellates, e.g., Giardia, Leishmania Ciliophora – the ciliates, e.g., Balantidium Sporozoa – organisms whose adult stage is not motile e.g., Plasmodium, Cryptosporidium Helminths Helminths are large, multicellular organisms that are generally visible to the naked eye in their adult stages.
Like protozoa, helminths can be either free-living or parasitic in nature.
In their adult form, helminths cannot multiply in humans.
There are three main groups of helminths (derived from the Greek word for worms) that are human parasites: Flatworms (platyhelminths) – these include the trematodes (flukes) and cestodes (tapeworms).
Thorny-headed worms (acanthocephalins) – the adult forms of these worms reside in the gastrointestinal tract.
The acanthocephala are thought to be intermediate between the cestodes and nematodes.
Roundworms (nematodes) – the adult forms of these worms can reside in the gastrointestinal tract, blood, lymphatic system or subcutaneous tissues.
Alternatively, the immature (larval) states can cause disease through their infection of various body tissues.
Some consider the helminths to also include the segmented worms (annelids)—the only ones important medically are the leeches.
Of note, these organisms are not typically considered parasites.
An adult Ascaris lumbriocoides worm.
They can range from 15 to 35 cm.Credit: CDC.
Ectoparasites Although the term ectoparasites can broadly include blood-sucking arthropods such as mosquitoes (because they are dependent on a blood meal from a human host for their survival), this term is generally used more narrowly to refer to organisms such as ticks, fleas, lice, and mites that attach or burrow into the skin and remain there for relatively long periods of time (e.g., weeks to months).
Arthropods are important in causing diseases in their own right, but are even more important as vectors, or transmitters, of many different pathogens that in turn cause tremendous morbidity and mortality from the diseases they cause.
An adult louse.
Acutal size is about as big as a sesame seed.Credit: CDC.
Parasitic Infections Parasitic infections cause a tremendous burden of disease in both the tropics and subtropics as well as in more temperate climates.
Of all parasitic diseases, malaria causes the most deaths globally.
Malaria kills more than 400,000 people each year, most of them young children in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs), which have suffered from a lack of attention by the public health community, include parasitic diseases such as lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, and Guinea worm disease.
The NTDs affect more than 1 billion people worldwide, largely in rural areas of low-income countries.
These diseases extract a large toll on endemic populations, including lost ability to attend school or work, stunting of growth in children, impairment of cognitive skills and development in young children, and the serious economic burden placed on entire countries.
However, parasitic infections also affect persons living in developed countries, including the United States.
ON THIS PAGE Protozoa Helminths Ectoparasites Parasitic Infections SOURCES PRINT SHARE Parasites A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern Search Contact Us Print DPDx is a website developed and maintained by CDC’s Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria (DPDM) that uses the Internet to assist laboratorians and pathologists in the diagnosis of parasitic diseases, both in the United States and abroad.
Please remember that DPDx will not respond to inquiries that are outside the goals and objectives of this website.
Please include the following information along with your message: Your name Your affiliation Your telephone contact number (optional) PLEASE NOTE: Effective immediately, the DPDx Team will require a CDC 50.34 submission form to be filled out and submitted with images for diagnostic assistance in order to generate a formal, written laboratory report.
This form must be submitted in a secure method to protect patient information.
The CDC has a Sharefile system that should be used to submit the form and images.
Please email the DPDx Team to request a one-time link to the Sharefile server to submit a case for diagnostic assistance.
The Team will include a CDC CSID number for the case in the subject line when they email the link and that number will be used for any subsequent correspondence (when necessary).
The following steps describe the submission process: Send an email requesting diagnostic assistance to dpdx@cdc.gov.
DO NOT include patient identifiers or images in the email requesting diagnostic assistance.
The DPDx team will respond by email with a CDC Sharefile link, open this link in your browser.
Upload your case images and CDC 50.34 submission form.
Other supporting documents and communications such as questions, etc.
can also be uploaded as word or text files.
The DPDx team will receive notification once the files are uploaded and will respond via email with a preliminary diagnosis using the CDC CSID number assigned.
An official, final diagnosis will be generated only if the CDC 50.34 is submitted.
If the electronic communication system of your institution is incompatible with using the web-based CDC Sharefile, the form should be printed and faxed to (country code +1) 404-718-4195, attn: DPDx Team, or submitted using your institution’s own web-based secure file sharing system, unless the CDC IT Security Team detects that it does not meet HHS requirements for patient data transfer.
The images may be submitted by email; however the file name of the images should not include patient identifiers.
To access the most recent form (CDC 50.34), please click here.
This assistance is free of charge (except for U.S.
Federal agencies and the U.S.
If you have an urgent case, please do not delay case management and treatment.
Please do not include patient identifiers (P.I.) in email inquiries.
Please send your diagnostic request to dpdx@cdc.gov.
Top of Page DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: August 31, 2023 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern Search Other Specimens – Whole Organisms Print Unequivocal identification of genus/species is frequently dependent on direct morphological examination of the entire organism or diagnostically useful portions (e.g., proglottids).
Ideally this is performed prior to histological sectioning and staining, which can be informative in some instances but often precludes or complicates specific diagnosis.
Please submit the entire intact organism if it is available.
If histological sectioning is indicated, it can be performed at CDC after examining the whole specimen.
Please note that receipt of the whole specimen is critical for accurate diagnosis.
If multiple whole specimens are in question, please submit all available specimens, as examination of different life stages and sexes of helminths/arthropods may assist in accurate diagnosis.
If you would like your specimens returned to you, please state this on the submission form and it will be arranged.
Please be advised that CDC offers diagnostic testing on specimens collected from human patients.
Specimens of animal origin will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Helminths (cestodes, trematodes, nematodes, and acanthocephalans) Preservation in 70–90% ethanol or glycerol-ethanol (10% glycerol in 70% ethanol) is preferred as this allows for DNA extraction and molecular identification, if deemed necessary following morphologic examination.
Formalin-containing fixatives/storage solutions are acceptable for morphologic diagnosis but may interfere with molecular identification.
Organisms that are alive at the time of collection should ideally be washed in saline, relaxed and killed by various methods, and then transferred to a storage solution.
This protects sample integrity, and for nematodes avoids fixation in a coiled shape that may be difficult to examine.
Specimens should be shipped in plastic containers.
Close all containers securely and wrap the lid with plastic film (Parafilm).
Ship according to the following shipping guidelines: ( ( If shipping directly to CDC, with permission of the appropriate county or state health department, please use the following address: Attn: DPDx Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RDSB/STAT ATTN: Unit 52 1600 Clifton Road, NE Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 (404) 718-4110 Arthropods Most arthropods of potential public health concern (including ticks, lice, mites, fleas, fly larvae, triatomine bugs, etc.) can be examined and identified by county/state extension services.
Please contact your relevant local office prior to DPDx submission.
DPDx accepts arthropod specimens that are collected in association with suspected human exposure (e.g., removed directly from patients).
Environmental samples generally will not be accepted.
Specimens should be stored in 70-90% ethanol and shipped as directed: ( ( If shipping directly to CDC, with permission of the appropriate county or state health department, please use the following address: Attn: DPDx Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RDSB/STAT ATTN: Unit 52 1600 Clifton Road, NE Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 (404) 718-4110 DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: February 14, 2019 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Blood Specimens plus icon Stool Specimens plus icon Serum/Plasma Specimens plus icon Other Specimens plus icon Shipment Tissue Tissue specimens for free-living amebae(FLA) Isolation of Leishmania organisms Sputum Aspirates Sputum, induced sputum, and bronchoalveolar avage (BAL) Vaginal swabs for diagnosis Procedure for demonstration of pinworm eggs Urine Whole Organisms Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern Search Other Specimens – Urine Specimens Print The definitive diagnosis of urinary schistosomiasis (Schistosoma haematobium) is established by demonstration of S.
haematobium eggs in urine.
An increased number of eggs is shed in the urine around midday, so an optimum urine specimen for diagnosis should be collected at noon.
The specimen should be immediately centrifuged at 400 × g and the sediment examined by wet mount.
Trichomonas vaginalis motile trophozoites may also be found in the urine, especially in infected male patients.
To look for the presence of trophozoites, the urine specimen should be centrifuged at 400 × g, the sediment mixed with a drop or two of saline, and examined by wet mount.
Temporary stains, such as methylene blue or malachite green, are also helpful.
For additional information about microscopic examination of urine specimens, call the Division of Parasitic Diseases, at (404) 718-4110.
DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: May 3, 2016 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Blood Specimens plus icon Stool Specimens plus icon Serum/Plasma Specimens plus icon Other Specimens plus icon Shipment Tissue Tissue specimens for free-living amebae(FLA) Isolation of Leishmania organisms Sputum Aspirates Sputum, induced sputum, and bronchoalveolar avage (BAL) Vaginal swabs for diagnosis Procedure for demonstration of pinworm eggs Urine Whole Organisms Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Parasites EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Causes Diagnosis Caring for Yourself and Others Children Travelers Communication Resources DPDM Features Women and Parasites Glossary Contact Us A-Z Index VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Laboratory Information CDC Bottle Bioassay Epi Info Vector Surveillance Application Chagas Disease: Optimizing Care for Pregnant Women and Children VIEW ALL View All JUNE 25, 2024 Contact Us AT A GLANCE Contact information for CDC's Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria.
Disclaimer: This site provides general health information and does not replace the medical advice of a healthcare provider.
If you have questions about your medical condition, consult your healthcare provider.
Contact Information: For the General Public CDC-INFO Have a question about malaria or other parasitic diseases?
Need a publication?
CDC-INFO is a consolidated response center that provides general information and publications about a wide variety of health topics to the general public via telephone or e-mail.
Contact CDC-INFO: Via telephone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) / TTY: 1-888-232-6348 Via the web: Contact CDC-INFO Hours: 8am–8pm ET / Monday–Friday (closed on weekends and holidays) Contact Information: For Healthcare Providers Only Note: Healthcare providers needing assistance with diagnosis or management of suspected cases of malaria or other parasitic diseases should call one of the hotlines below.
Guidance for diagnosis and treatment of malaria is also available here.
The following hotlines are for healthcare providers only; healthcare providers should not direct patients to these hotlines for information.
Parasitic Diseases Hotline/Clinical Consult Service for Healthcare Providers (non-malaria parasitic diseases) Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 am – 4 pm EST Telephone: 404-718-4745 Email: parasites@cdc.gov Afterhours/Emergency: 770-488-7100 Malaria Hotline/Clinical Consult Service for Healthcare Providers Hours: Monday – Friday, 9 am – 5 pm EST Telephone: 770-488-7788 or 855-856-4713 (toll free) Email: malaria@cdc.gov Afterhours/Emergency: 770-488-7100 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Parasites A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Guinea Worm Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Surveillance of Guinea worm VIEW ALL View All MARCH 14, 2024 About Guinea Worm KEY POINTS Guinea worm disease (GWD) is caused by the parasite Dracunculus medinensis.
A parasite is an organism (a living thing) that lives on or inside another organism.
The disease affects communities in remote parts of Africa that do not have safe water to drink.
There is no treatment nor a vaccine for Guinea worm disease.
Overview Dracunculiasis, also known as Guinea worm disease (GWD), is an infection caused by the parasite Dracunculus medinensis.
GWD is a neglected tropical disease (NTD) transmitted to people mostly by consuming unsafe water.
Unfiltered drinking water from ponds or other stagnant surface water sources can contain near-microscopic crustaceans called copepods (tiny "water fleas") that are infected with Guinea worm larvae (immature forms of the Guinea worm).
Signs and symptoms People do not usually have GWD symptoms until about one year after infection.
Then, a mature pregnant female worm full of larvae creates a blister on the skin through which she will emerge and expel her larvae when she comes in contact with water.
A few days to hours before the worm, which can measure up to 3 feet (1 meter) in length, comes out of the skin, a person may develop fever, swelling, and pain in the area.
Most worms come out of people's legs and feet, though worms can come out of other body parts, too.
Challenges People in remote rural communities who have GWD often lack access to healthcare.
When the adult female worm comes out of the skin, it can be very painful, disabling, and take a long time to remove.
The emerging worm can cause a wound that may develop a secondary infection.
People at risk Anyone who consumes drinking water from a pond or other stagnant water source contaminated with infected copepods is at risk for infection.
People's risk for disease can vary.
People do not get immunity after GWD, which means they can get it again.
GWD transmission also has a seasonal pattern.
How it spreads Water contact triggers the Guinea worm to release a milky white liquid that contains hundreds of thousands of immature larvae into the water.
In ponds and other stagnant water sources, these larvae are then consumed by copepods.
People might become infected with Guinea worms by consuming unfiltered drinking water from such water sources containing infected copepods.
People and animals might also become infected by eating certain aquatic animals (e.g., fish or frogs) that have swallowed infected copepods.
People and animals infected with GWD can then spread the disease when the worm matures and is ready to emerge from the body if they enter ponds and other stagnant water sources that others drink from.
Prevention Guinea worm is a disease that has been prioritized for eradication by the World Health Organization.
There were an estimated 3.5 million Guinea worm cases occurring annually in 20 African and Asian countries in 1986, but today, through the Guinea Worm Eradication Program (GWEP), only a handful of countries continue to have the disease.
GWEP undertakes several water-related and other measures to prevent GWD: Surveillance and case containment Safe water practices, including distribution of cloth and pipe filters to remove copepods, and advocacy for installation or rehabilitation of safe drinking water supplies like borehole wells Vector control Health education and community mobilization Quick facts There were 14 human GWD cases reported in 2023 in Chad, South Sudan, Mali, Cameroon, and Central African Republic.
There were 714 animal GWD infections reported in 2023, which is a slight increase compared to 2022 following expanded surveillance activities.
WHO has certified 200 countries free from Guinea worm.
The six countries that have not yet been certified as free from Guinea worm are Angola, Chad, Ethiopia, Mali, South Sudan, and Sudan.
Treatment and recovery There is no drug to treat Guinea worm infection.
Once part of the worm begins to come out of the wound, it is important that all of the worm is removed to prevent complications.
Anti-inflammatory medicine can help reduce pain and swelling, and antibiotic ointment can help prevent infections.
Vaccines There is no vaccine to prevent Guinea worm infection.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs and symptoms People at risk How it spreads Prevention Quick facts Treatment and recovery Vaccines SOURCES PRINT SHARE Guinea Worm Disease Guinea worm disease is considered a Neglected Tropical Disease.
It is a parasitic infection spread by drinking water containing Guinea worm larvae.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Life Cycle Trichomonas vaginalis resides in the female lower genital tract and the male urethra and prostate , where it replicates by binary fission .
The parasite does not appear to have a cyst form, and does not survive well in the external environment.
Trichomonas vaginalis is transmitted among humans, its only known host, primarily by sexual intercourse .
Geographic Distribution Worldwide.
Higher prevalence among persons with multiple sexual partners or other venereal diseases.
Clinical Presentation Trichomonas vaginalis infection in women is frequently symptomatic.
Vaginitis with a purulent discharge is the prominent symptom, and can be accompanied by vulvar and cervical lesions, abdominal pain, dysuria and dyspareunia.
The incubation period is 5 to 28 days.
In men, the infection is frequently asymptomatic; occasionally, urethritis, epididymitis, and prostatitis can occur.
DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: June 7, 2024 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
The three main species infecting humans are Schistosoma haematobium, S.
japonicum, and S.
Three other species, more localized geographically, are S.
mekongi, S.
intercalatum, and S.
guineensis (previously considered synonymous with S.
intercalatum).
There have also been a few reports of hybrid schistosomes of cattle origin (S.
haematobium, x S.
bovis, x S.
curassoni, x S.
mattheei) infecting humans.
Unlike other trematodes, which are hermaphroditic, Schistosoma spp.
are dioecous (individuals of separate sexes).
In addition, other species of schistosomes, which parasitize birds and mammals, can cause cercarial dermatitis in humans but this is clinically distinct from schistosomiasis.
Life Cycle View Larger Schistosoma eggs are eliminated with feces or urine, depending on species .
Under appropriate conditions the eggs hatch and release miracidia , which swim and penetrate specific snail intermediate hosts .
The stages in the snail include two generations of sporocysts and the production of cercariae .
Upon release from the snail, the infective cercariae swim, penetrate the skin of the human host , and shed their forked tails, becoming schistosomulae .
The schistosomulae migrate via venous circulation to lungs, then to the heart, and then develop in the liver, exiting the liver via the portal vein system when mature, .
Male and female adult worms copulate and reside in the mesenteric venules, the location of which varies by species (with some exceptions) .
For instance, S.
japonicum is more frequently found in the superior mesenteric veins draining the small intestine , and S.
mansoni occurs more often in the inferior mesenteric veins draining the large intestine .
However, both species can occupy either location and are capable of moving between sites.
intercalatum and S.
guineensis also inhabit the inferior mesenteric plexus but lower in the bowel than S.
haematobium most often inhabitsin the vesicular and pelvic venous plexus of the bladder , but it can also be found in the rectal venules.
The females (size ranges from 7–28 mm, depending on species) deposit eggs in the small venules of the portal and perivesical systems.
The eggs are moved progressively toward the lumen of the intestine (S.
japonicum, S.
mekongi, S.
intercalatum/guineensis) and of the bladder and ureters (S.
haematobium), and are eliminated with feces or urine, respectively .
Hosts Various animals such as cattle, dogs, cats, rodents, pigs, horses, and goats, serve as reservoirs for S.
japonicum, and dogs for S.
mansoni is also frequently recovered from wild primates in endemic areas but is considered primarily a human parasite and not a zoonosis.
Intermediate hosts are snails of the genera Biomphalaria, (S.
mansoni), Oncomelania (S.
japonicum), Bulinus (S.
haematobium, S.
intercalatum, S.
guineensis).
The only known intermediate host for S.
mekongi is Neotricula aperta.
Geographic Distribution Schistosoma mansoni is found primarily across sub-Saharan Africa and some South American countries (Brazil, Venezuela, Suriname) and the Caribbean, with sporadic reports in the Arabian Peninsula.
haematobium is found in Africa and pockets of the Middle East.
japonicum is found in China, the Philippines, and Sulawesi.
Despite its name, it has long been eliminated from Japan.
The other, less common human-infecting species have relatively restricted geographic ranges.
mekongi occurs focally in parts of Cambodia and Laos.
intercalatum has only been found in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; S.
guineensis is found in West Africa.
Instances of infections with hybrid/introgressed Schistosoma (S.
haematobium x S.
bovis, x S.
curassoni, x S.
mattheei) have occurred in Corsica, France, and some West African countries.
Clinical Presentation Symptoms of schistosomiasis are not caused by the worms themselves but by the body’s reaction to the eggs.
Many infections are asymptomatic.
A local cutaneous hypersensitivity reaction following skin penetration by cercariae may occur and appears as small, itchy maculopapular lesions.
Acute schistosomiasis (Katayama fever) is a systemic hypersensitivity reaction that may occur weeks after the initial infection, especially by S.
mansoni and S.
Manifestations include systemic symptoms/signs including fever, cough, abdominal pain, diarrhea, hepatosplenomegaly, and eosinophilia.
Occasionally, Schistosoma infections may lead to central nervous system lesions.
Cerebral granulomatous disease may be caused by ectopic S.
japonicum eggs in the brain, and granulomatous lesions around ectopic eggs in the spinal cord may occur in S.
mansoni and S.
haematobium infections.
Continuing infection may cause granulomatous reactions and fibrosis in the affected organs (e.g., liver and spleen) with associated signs/symptoms.
Pathology associated with S.
mansoni and S.
japonicum schistosomiasis includes various hepatic complications from inflammation and granulomatous reactions, and occasional embolic egg granulomas in brain or spinal cord.
Pathology of S.
haematobium schistosomiasis includes hematuria, scarring, calcification, squamous cell carcinoma, and occasional embolic egg granulomas in brain or spinal cord.
DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and laboratory scientists.
For an overview including prevention, control, and treatment visit 
Last Reviewed: June 7, 2024 Source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate home DPDx Home Parasites A-Z Index DPDx Case Studies Diagnostic Procedures plus icon Diagnostic Assistance Training Contact Us About Our Division Social_govd Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: Email Address What's this?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Guinea Worm Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Surveillance of Guinea worm VIEW ALL View All FEBRUARY 5, 2025 Surveillance of Guinea worm KEY POINTS CDC and The Carter Center put out monthly publications called "Guinea worm wrap-ups." The publications track the eradication of Guinea worm disease.
Guinea Worm Wrap-Up Archive A monthly publication from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and The Carter Center, tracking the eradication of Guinea worm disease.
Current and archived issues from 1983 to present are available in English and French (PDF).
Click a year to see a list of the Guinea Worm Wrap-Ups for that year.
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Guinea Worm Wrap-Up Archive 1982 - 2012 Read More: View GW wrap-ups from the start of the program in 1982 – 2012 ON THIS PAGE Guinea Worm Wrap-Up Archive Guinea Worm Wrap-Up Archive 1982 - 2012 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Guinea Worm Disease Guinea worm disease is considered a Neglected Tropical Disease.
It is a parasitic infection spread by drinking water containing Guinea worm larvae.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Guinea Worm Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Surveillance of Guinea worm VIEW ALL View All PARASITES Health Care Providers MARCH 15, 2024 Clinical Guidance for Guinea Worm KEY POINTS People infected can take steps to manage Guinea worm disease (GWD) and avoid further contamination of water sources.
The Guinea Worm Eradication Program (GWEP) is a group of national and international partners who support global eradication activities.
Guiding principles The Guinea Worm Eradication Program (GWEP) is a group of national and international partners who support global activities to eradicate Guinea worm disease (GWD).
Preventing GWD focuses on Surveillance (case detection) and case containment Safe drinking water Vector control Health education and community mobilization Village volunteers (people selected by the community to work with the GWEP) provide many GWD interventions.
Village volunteers identify and manage people with GWD to help prevent them from contaminating drinking water sources (i.e., case containment).
They also distribute water filters and provide health education to the community.
GWEP village volunteers look for GWD cases in their community daily.
Each month, they report the total number of cases in their communities to supervisors, who compile the information and send it to the national GWEP headquarters.
The information is then shared with The Carter Center and the World Health Organization (WHO), where the organizations can identify where transmission is occurring and how the disease is spreading.
Preventing transmission Case containment Case containment centers are built in strategic locations in several countries1 provide treatment and support to people with GWD and prevent them from contaminating water sources.
A case of GWD is considered to be contained if all of the following conditions are met: 2 3 Village volunteers identify the person with GWD before or within 24 hours of the worm emerging, AND The infected person has not entered any water source since the worm has emerged; AND The village volunteer or other health care provider has properly managed the case, by cleaning and bandaging the wound until the worm has been fully removed and by providing health education to discourage the patient from contaminating any water source (if two or more emerging worms are present, the case is not contained until the last worm is removed); AND Within seven days of the worm emerging, a GWEP supervisor determines that the above criteria have been met and the case is truly GWD; AND The approved chemical temephos (ABATE®*) is used to treat potentially contaminated surface water if there is any uncertainty about contamination of sources of drinking water or if a source of drinking water is known to have been contaminated and if the water body in question meets certain other logistical criteria.
Centers should also apply the criteria for defining a contained case of Guinea worm disease in a human.
Safe water Safe drinking water sources include bore-hole wells and deep hand-dug wells with protective walls around them that prevent contaminated water from flowing back into the well (e.g., after rains or floods or if someone pours/spills water nearby the well).
Flowing water (e.g., water found in a stream or river), is also safe from Guinea worm.
The GWEP advocates for the development and maintenance of safe drinking water sources and encourages treatment of potentially contaminated drinking water.
Households receive fine-mesh cloth filters to strain out copepods (tiny "water fleas" too small to be clearly seen without a magnifying glass) from contaminated drinking water where there are no safe water supplies.
People who travel or work away from the household and might not have access to filtered water receive individual pipe filters.
These devices are used like straws to drink water from unsafe water sources.
Vector control A vector is an organism that carries or transmits a disease.
The vector for GWD is the copepod.
GWEP puts a measured amount of the approved chemical temephos (ABATE®*) into water sources that are suspected or known to be contaminated with Guinea worm-infected copepods.
This chemical kills the infected copepods and prevents people from becoming infected with GWD when they drink the water.
Health education and community mobilization GWEP works to educate and mobilize the community to learn about spread through household education and organized events (e.g., Worm Weeks) Learn about GWD and spread through educating people during household visits by GWEP volunteers and staff through organized events, (e.g., Worm Weeks) Help villagers act against the disease by not entering water sources (e.g., lakes and ponds) with emerging worms to prevent contaminating drinking water supplies Use water filters to protect against GWD Bury or burn fish guts left over from fish processing to prevent dogs from eating them Avoid feeding fish guts to dogs Thoroughly cook any fish and other aquatic animals before eating them to prevent themselves from becoming infected Work in partnership with GWEP to tether dogs known or suspected to be infected until their worms are fully emerged or infection is ruled out Help villagers understand the need for safe chemical treatment (temephos) in their water supply.
*Use of trade names is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the Public Health Service or by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References Hochberg N, Ruiz-Tiben E, Downs P, Fagan J, Maguire JH.
The Role of Case Containment Centers in the Eradication of Dracunculiasis in Togo and Ghana.
Am J Trop Med Hyg, 2008.
WHO Collaborating Center for Dracunculiasis Eradication, Guinea Worm Wrap Up , 2010.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CGH): Atlanta.
 Hopkins DR, et al., Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis, January 2016–June 2017.
MMWR, 2017 Dec 8.
 ON THIS PAGE Guiding principles Preventing transmission References RELATED PAGES Surveillance of Guinea worm Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Guinea Worm Disease Surveillance of Guinea worm SOURCES PRINT SHARE Guinea Worm Disease Guinea worm disease is considered a Neglected Tropical Disease.
It is a parasitic infection spread by drinking water containing Guinea worm larvae.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Guinea Worm Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Surveillance of Guinea worm VIEW ALL View All PARASITES Health Care Providers APRIL 16, 2024 Clinical Overview of Guinea Worm KEY POINTS Guinea worm disease (GWD) affects communities in remote parts of Africa that do not have safe water to drink.
There is no drug nor vaccine to treat or prevent GWD.
People can take steps to manage GWD and prevent further complications.
Cause People become infected with Guinea worms by consuming unfiltered drinking water from ponds and other stagnant water (e.g., ponds, pools in drying riverbeds, and shallow hand-dug wells without surrounding protective walls) containing copepods (near-microscopic freshwater crustaceans) that are too small to be clearly seen without a magnifying glass.
The copepods swallow Guinea worm larvae (immature forms of the worm), and then people who drink water containing the infected copepods can develop Guinea worm disease (GWD).
GWD is not normally caught from drinking flowing water (e.g., rivers and streams).1 2 3 People and animals might also become infected by eating certain aquatic animals (e.g., fish or frogs) that might swallow infected copepods and carry Guinea worm larvae, though they do not themselves suffer the effects of infection.
If people or animals eat raw or undercooked aquatic animals either whole or in part (e.g., small whole fish that have not been gutted, fish guts, and frogs), the Guinea worm larvae are then released into the human or animal digestive tract.
4 After people or animals consume them, the copepods die and release the larvae, which penetrate the host stomach and intestinal wall and move to the connective tissues of the abdomen where they mate.
After mating, the pregnant female worm grows to 60 – 100 centimeters (2 – 3 feet) in length and as wide as a cooked spaghetti noodle during the next 10 – 14 months (on average, one year).
When the adult female worm is ready to release her larvae, approximately one year after infection, she moves to a spot just beneath the skin.
A blister forms on the skin where the worm will eventually emerge.
This blister may form anywhere on the body, but usually forms on the legs and feet.
This blister causes a very painful burning feeling, and it bursts within 24 – 72 hours.
Who is at risk People's risk for GWD varies.
These differences reflect how and where people get their drinking water in different areas and countries.
GWD occurs in all age groups but is most common among young adults 15 – 45 years old, possibly due to the type of work people of these ages do.
Farmers, herders, and those fetching drinking water for the household may be more likely to become infected because they might consume unfiltered water while away from home.
In certain areas, GWD affects some ethnic groups more than others.1 2 3 Risk factors GWD can occur at any time of the year, but is most common during peak transmission season, which varies by country.
In dry regions, people generally get infected during the rainy season, when stagnant surface water is available.
In wet regions, people generally get infected during the dry season, when surface water is drying and becoming stagnant.
2 3 Reinfection People do not become immune to Guinea worm infection if they have had it before.
In fact, an important risk factor for new GW infection is having had GWD the year before.
In the past, when GWD cases were higher, some people in affected villages suffered from GWD year after year, most likely due to the same water sources being repeatedly contaminated.
Biological characteristics may also influence a person's susceptibility.
Not everyone drinking from the same contaminated water supply will become infected.
Some people seem to keep getting infected while others drinking the same water do not.
1 3 5 How it spreads Whether to relieve pain or as part of their daily lives (e.g., to collect water, bathe, wash clothes, cool off, etc.), people and animals infected with Guinea worm usually enter bodies of water.
Water contact triggers the Guinea worm to release a milky white liquid that contains hundreds of thousands of immature larvae into the water.
Copepods that live in ponds and other stagnant water sources swallow these larvae, and the cycle begins again when people or animals consume the water containing infected copepods.
Spread in animals Guinea worm infection in animals has been a challenge since 2012.
This has led to consideration of the possibility of GWD transmission though a previously unrecognized route — consumption of fish, frogs, or other aquatic animals that carry Guinea worm larvae, but do not themselves suffer the effects of transmission.6 The situation has been carefully investigated7 and control measures have been implemented (e.g., tethering of dogs, educating residents to fully cook aquatic animals before eating them and not feed fish guts to dogs.
In 2023, there were a total of 714 animal infections worldwide, with a slight increase in reports from 2022 following expanded surveillance activities.
This included 495 animals in Chad, 47 in Mali, 97 in Cameroon, 73 in Angola, one in Ethiopia, and one in South Sudan.
Patient management There is no drug nor vaccine to prevent or treat Guinea worm infection.
People can learn how to manage GWD and prevent further spread.
When the Guinea worm is ready to come out of the body, it creates a painful burning blister on the skin, which eventually ruptures, exposing the worm.
If infected, people can take the following steps: Ensure the infected person does not enter drinking water sources.
Clean the wound by soaking the affected body part in water (far away from any water source to avoid contamination).
Soaking the wound will encourage the worm to contract and release larvae, which makes it easier to remove the worm.
Wrap the worm around a piece of rolled piece of gauze.
This will maintain tension on the worm and help more of the worm come out, while also preventing the worm from slipping back inside.
Use gentle traction on the worm to slowly pull it out.
Stop pulling when you feel resistance to avoid breaking the worm.
Because the worm can be as long as three feet (one meter), extraction can take several days to weeks.
After extracting the worm, apply topical antibiotics to the wound to prevent secondary bacterial infection.
Bandage the wound with fresh gauze to protect the site.
Medicines (e.g., aspirin or ibuprofen) can be taken to ease the pain and reduce inflammation.
Repeat these steps daily until the whole worm is successfully pulled out.
Complications Once part of the worm begins to come out of the wound, the rest of the worm can only be pulled out a few centimeters each day by winding it around a piece of gauze.
Sometimes the whole worm can be pulled out within a few days, but the process usually takes weeks.
Care must be taken not to break the worm during removal.
If the worm breaks and part of the worm is not removed, there is a risk for significant inflammation and secondary bacterial infection, with resulting complications.
This makes the pain worse and can increase the time an infected person is unable to function from weeks to months.
Sometimes, permanent damage can occur if a joint is infected and becomes locked.
Anti-inflammatory medicine can help reduce pain and swelling.
Antibiotic ointment can help prevent infections.
References Cairncross, S., R.
Muller, and N.
Zagaria, Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) and the eradication initiative.
Clin Microbiol Rev, 2002.
 Greenaway, C., Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease).
CMAJ, 2004.
 Ruiz-Tiben, E.
Hopkins, Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) eradication.
Adv Parasitol, 2006.
 Hopkins DR, et al., Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis, January 2016–June 2017.
MMWR, 2017 Dec 8.
 Tayeh, A., S.
Cairncross, and G.H.
Maude, Water sources and other determinants of dracunculiasis in the northern region of Ghana.
J Helminthol, 1993.
Eberhard ML, Ruiz-Tiben E, Hopkins DR, Farrell C, Toe F, Weiss A, Withers PC Jr, Jenks MH, Thiele EA, Cotton JA, Hance Z, Holroyd N, Cama VA, Tahir MA, Mounda T.
The Peculiar Epidemiology of Dracunculiasis in Chad.
Am J Trop Med Hyg, 2014 Jan.
 Hopkins DR, Weiss AJ, Yerian S, Sapp SGH, Cama VA.
Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis—Worldwide, January 2021–June 2022.
MMWR, 2022.

ON THIS PAGE Cause Who is at risk Risk factors How it spreads Patient management Complications References RELATED PAGES Clinical Guidance Surveillance of Guinea worm VIEW ALL Guinea Worm Disease Clinical Guidance SOURCES PRINT SHARE Guinea Worm Disease Guinea worm disease is considered a Neglected Tropical Disease.
It is a parasitic infection spread by drinking water containing Guinea worm larvae.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Trichomoniasis EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Related Topics Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) More from CDC Health Topics A-Z Outbreaks About CDC Health Topics A-Z About Trichomoniasis JAN.
31, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Trichomoniasis a common, treatable, sexually transmitted infection (STI) Most people who have trichomoniasis do not have any symptoms This fact sheet answers general questions about trichomoniasis Overview What is trichomoniasis?
Trichomoniasis (or "trich") is a very common STI caused by infection with trichomonas vaginalis (a protozoan parasite).
Although symptoms vary, most people who have trich cannot tell they have it.
How common is trichomoniasis?
In the United States, CDC estimates that there were more than two million trichomoniasis infections in 2018.
However, only about 30% develop any symptoms of trich.
Infection is more common in women than in men.
Older women are more likely than younger women to have the infection.
Signs and symptoms What are the signs and symptoms of trichomoniasis?
About 70% of people with the infection do not have any signs or symptoms.
When trich does cause symptoms, they can range from mild irritation to severe inflammation.
Some people get symptoms within 5 to 28 days after getting the infection.
Others do not develop symptoms until much later.
Symptoms can come and go.
Men with trich may notice: Itching or irritation inside the penis Burning after peeing or ejaculating Discharge from the penis Women with trich may notice: Itching, burning, redness or soreness of the genitals Discomfort when peeing A clear, white, yellowish, or greenish vaginal discharge (i.e., thin discharge or increased volume) with a fishy smell Having trich can make sex feel unpleasant.
Without treatment, the infection can last for months or even years.
What are the complications of trichomoniasis?
Trich can increase the risk of getting or spreading other sexually transmitted infections.
For example, trich can cause genital inflammation, making it easier to get HIV, or pass it to a sex partner.
How does trichomoniasis affect a pregnant woman and her baby?
Pregnant women with trich are more likely to have their babies early.
Also, their babies are more likely to have a low birth weight (less than 5.5 pounds).
How it spreads How is trichomoniasis spread?
Sexually active people can get trich by having sex without a condom with a partner who has trich.
In women, the infection is most commonly found in the lower genital tract (vulva, vagina, cervix, or urethra).
In men, the infection is most commonly found inside the penis (urethra).
During sex, the parasite usually spreads from a penis to a vagina, or from a vagina to a penis.
It can also spread from a vagina to another vagina.
It is not common for the parasite to infect other body parts, like the hands, mouth, or anus.
It is unclear why some people with the infection get symptoms while others do not.
It probably depends on factors like a person's age and overall health.
People with trich can pass the infection to others, even if they do not have symptoms.
Prevention How can I prevent trichomoniasis?
The only way to avoid STIs is to not have vaginal, anal, or oral sex.
If you are sexually active, you can do the following things to lower your chances of getting trich: Being in a long-term mutually monogamous relationship with a partner who has been tested and does not have trich Using condoms the right way every time you have sex Also, talk about the potential risk of STIs before having sex with a new partner.
This can help inform the choices you are comfortable taking with your sex life.
If you are sexually active, have an honest and open talk with your healthcare provider.
Ask them if you should get tested for trich or other STIs.
Testing and diagnosis How do healthcare providers diagnose trich?
It is not possible to diagnose trich based on symptoms alone.
Your healthcare provider can examine you and a laboratory test will confirm the diagnosis.
Treatment and recovery What is the treatment for trichomoniasis?
Trich is the most common curable STI.
A healthcare provider can treat the infection with medication (pills) taken by mouth.
This treatment is also safe for pregnant women If you receive and complete treatment for trich, you can still get it again.
Reinfection occurs in about 1 in 5 people within 3 months after receiving treatment.
This can happen if you have sex without a condom with a person who has trich.
To avoid reinfection, your sex partners should receive treatment at the same time.
You should not have sex again until you and your sex partner(s) complete treatment.
You should receive testing again about three months after your treatment, even if your sex partner(s) received treatment.
Resources Workowski, KA, Bachmann, LH, Chang, PA, et.
Sexually Transmitted Infections Treatment Guidelines, 2021.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2021; 70(No.
Kreisel KM, Spicknall IH, Gargano JW, Lewis FM, Lewis RM, Markowitz LE, Roberts H, Satcher Johnson A, Song R, St.
Cyr SB, Weston EJ, Torrone EA, Weinstock HS.
Sexually transmitted infections among US women and men: Prevalence and incidence estimates, 2018.
Sex Transm Dis 2021; in press.
Peterman TA, Tian LH, Metcalf CA, Satterwhite CL, Malotte CK, DeAugustine N, Paul SM, Cross H, Rietmeijer CA, Douglas JM Jr; RESPECT-2 Study Group.
High incidence of new sexually transmitted infections in the year following a sexually transmitted infection: a case for rescreening.
Ann Intern Med.
2006 Oct 17;145(8):564-72.
Hobbs M, Seña EC, Swygard H, Schwebke J.
Trichomonas vaginalis and Trichomoniasis.
In: KK Holmes, PF Sparling, WE Stamm, P Piot, JN Wasserheit, L Corey, MS Cohen, DH Watts (editors).
Sexually Transmitted Diseases, 4th edition.
New York: McGraw-Hill, 2008, 771-793.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs and symptoms How it spreads Prevention Testing and diagnosis Treatment and recovery Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Trichomoniasis Trichomoniasis a common, treatable, sexually transmitted infection (STI).
Sign up for Email Updates Contact Us About CDC Policies Languages Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Schistosomiasis EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Prevention Fast Facts Schistosomiasis Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care and Treatment VIEW ALL View All MARCH 4, 2024 Clinical Care of Schistosomiasis KEY POINTS Praziquantel is effective at treating infections with all major Schistosoma species.
Host immune response differences may impact individual response to treatment with praziquantel.
Oral praziquantel is available for human use in the United States.
Treatment recommendations Praziquantel is effective at treating infections with all major Schistosoma species.
The timing of treatment is important since praziquantel is most effective against the adult worm and requires the presence of a mature antibody response to the parasite.
One study has suggested an effect of praziquantel on schistosome eggs lodged in tissues.
For travelers, treatment should occur at least 6 to 8 weeks after last exposure to potentially contaminated freshwater.
Possible resistance Limited evidence of parasite resistance to praziquantel has been reported based on low cure rates in recently exposed or heavily infected populations.
However, widespread clinical resistance has not occurred.
Thus, praziquantel remains the drug of choice for treatment of schistosomiasis.
Immune responses Host immune response differences may impact individual response to treatment with praziquantel.
The immune response in lightly infected patients may be less robust and repeat treatment may be needed after 2 – 4 weeks to increase effectiveness.
If the pre-treatment stool or urine examination was positive for schistosome eggs, follow up examination at 1 – 2 months post-treatment is suggested to help confirm successful cure.
Species Drug Dosage and Duration Schistosoma mansoni, S.
haematobium, S.
intercalatum Praziquantel 40 mg/kg per day orally in two divided doses for one day S.
japonicum, S.
mekongi Praziquantel 60 mg/kg per day orally in three divided doses for one day Oral praziquantel is available for human use in the United States.
Children and Pregnancy There is a lack of safety trial data for the use of praziquantel in children less than 4 years of age or women who are pregnant.
However, this drug has been distributed widely in mass drug administration programs and the World Health Organization (WHO) now recommends that children at least 2 years of age and women who are pregnant should be treated as part of those campaigns based on extensive experience with the drug and review of the veterinary and human evidence.
Similarly, WHO reports growing evidence that infected children as young as 1-year-old can be effectively treated with praziquantel without serious side effects.
The drug is commonly available in the form of large, hard-to-swallow pills; however, pediatric PZQ in the form of a dispersible tablet is available in some countries.
It is not FDA approved in the U.S.
This information is provided as an informational resource for licensed health care providers as guidance only.
It is not intended as a substitute for professional judgment.
Care precautions Expand All Praziquantel ON THIS PAGE Treatment recommendations Care precautions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Schistosomiasis Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms found in contaminated fresh water.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis, January 2016–June 2017 Weekly / December 8, 2017 / 66(48);1327–1331 Print Please note: An erratum has been published for this report.
To view the erratum, please click here.
Hopkins, MD1; Ernesto Ruiz-Tiben, PhD1; Mark L.
Eberhard, PhD2; Sharon L.
Roy, MD2; Adam J.
Weiss, MPH1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
The number of new cases of dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) occurring worldwide has decreased from an estimated 3.5 million in 1986, when the World Health Assembly declared global elimination as a goal, to 25 in 2016.
What is added by this report?
The number of human dracunculiasis cases reported worldwide during 2016 increased to 25 cases in three countries in 2016 from 22 cases in four countries in 2015.
However, during January–June 2017, the number of cases reported decreased from 10 cases in three countries during the same period in 2016, to eight, all in Chad.
The number of infected domestic dogs doubled from 503 in 2015 to 1,011 in 2016, but declined to 537 during January–June 2017 compared with 653 during the same period of 2016.
The emergence of infected dogs in Chad especially, and program disruptions caused by civil unrest and insecurity in Mali and South Sudan, are now the greatest challenges to interrupting transmission.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Although earlier target dates for global dracunculiasis eradication were missed, progress towards this goal has accelerated.
However, rigorous implementation (including recent interventions to prevent transmission to and from dogs) must be maintained in Chad to ensure continued progress during 2017 and beyond.
Approximately 1 year after a person acquires infection from contaminated drinking water, the worm emerges through the skin, usually on a lower limb (1).
Pain and secondary bacterial infection can cause temporary or permanent disability that disrupts work and schooling.
The campaign to eradicate dracunculiasis worldwide began in 1980 at CDC.
In 1986, the World Health Assembly called for dracunculiasis elimination,* and the global Guinea Worm Eradication Program, led by the Carter Center and supported by the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund, CDC, and other partners, began assisting ministries of health in countries with endemic dracunculiasis.
In 1986, an estimated 3.5 million cases occurred each year in 20 countries in Africa and Asia (2).
Since then, although the goal of eradicating dracunculiasis has not been achieved, considerable progress has been made.
This report updates published (3–4) and unpublished surveillance data reported by ministries of health and describes progress toward dracunculiasis eradication during January 2016–June 2017.
The 14% increase in cases from 2015 to 2016 was offset by the 25% reduction in number of countries with indigenous cases.
Continued active surveillance, aggressive detection, and appropriate management of cases are essential eradication program components; however, epidemiologic challenges, civil unrest, and insecurity pose potential barriers to eradication.
Because the life cycle of D.
medinensis is complex, its transmission can be interrupted using multiple strategies (1).
Dracunculiasis can be prevented by the following four main interventions: 1) educating residents in communities where the disease is endemic, particularly persons from whom worms are emerging, to avoid immersing affected body parts in sources of drinking water; 2) filtering potentially contaminated drinking water through a cloth filter or pipe filters to remove copepods (small crustaceans that host D.
medinensis larvae); 3) treating potentially contaminated surface water with the organophosphate insecticide temephos (Abate) to kill the copepods; and 4) providing safe drinking water from bore-hole or protected hand-dug wells (5).
Containment† of transmission is achieved through four complementary measures: 1) voluntary isolation and education of each patient to prevent contamination of drinking water sources, 2) provision of first aid to prevent secondary infections, 3) manual extraction of the worm, and 4) application of occlusive bandages.
No vaccine or medicine to prevent or treat Guinea worm disease currently exists.
medinensis has an approximately 1-year incubation period (range = 10–14 months) after infection (5).
A case of dracunculiasis is defined as an infection occurring in a person exhibiting a skin lesion or lesions with emergence of one or more worms that are laboratory-confirmed at CDC as D.
medinensis.
Each infected person is counted as a case only once during a calendar year.
Because certain patients have multiple Guinea worms emerge, more laboratory-confirmed specimens than cases might be reported in any given period.
Countries enter the WHO precertification stage of eradication after 1 full year with no reported indigenous§ cases.
An imported case is an infection resulting from ingestion of contaminated water from a source, identified through patient interviews and epidemiologic investigation, in a place other than in the community where the patient is detected and the case reported (i.e., another country or village within the same country).
Since 2012, no known internationally imported cases have been reported.
In each affected country, a national dracunculiasis eradication program receives monthly reports regarding cases from each village under active surveillance.
Reporting rates are calculated as the proportion of all villages under active surveillance reporting monthly (Table 2).
Active surveillance is conducted in all villages with endemic dracunculiasis or that are at high risk for importation, with daily searches of households for persons with signs or symptoms of dracunculiasis, to ensure case detection within 24 hours of worm emergence and prompt patient management to prevent contamination of water sources.
Villages where endemic transmission of dracunculiasis is interrupted (i.e., zero cases reported for ≥12 consecutive months) are kept under active surveillance for 3 consecutive years.
WHO certifies a country free from dracunculiasis after that country maintains adequate nationwide surveillance for ≥3 consecutive years and demonstrates that no indigenous cases occurred during that period.
As of January 2016, WHO had certified 198 countries, areas, and territories as free from dracunculiasis (3).
Eight countries remain to be certified: four where dracunculiasis is currently endemic (Chad, Ethiopia, Mali, and South Sudan), two in the precertification stage (Kenya and Sudan), and two never known to have had endemic dracunculiasis since the global eradication program began in 1980 (Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo), which are in the process of completing the requirements for certification.
During January 2016–June 2017, CDC evaluated 118 worm specimens that emerged from humans, including 108 (91.5%) from the four countries with endemic dracunculiasis, two (1.7%) from Kenya, three (2.5%) from Benin (Kenya and Benin formerly had endemic dracunculiasis), four (3.4%) from the Democratic Republic of Congo, and one (1%) from Niger.
medinensis).
During 2016, 46 animal worm specimens were submitted, and 32 (70%) were identified as D.
medinensis.
The 32 Dracunculus specimens came from two baboons and 13 dogs from Ethiopia, 11 dogs from Mali, and five dogs and one domestic cat from Chad.
During January–June 2017, 18 animal worm specimens were submitted and 14 were identified as D.
medinensis.
The 114 Dracunculus specimens came from four baboons and nine dogs from Ethiopia, and one dog from Chad.
Top Country Reports Chad.
After a decade with no reported cases, Chad reported 10 indigenous cases in 2010.
After indigenous cases were confirmed during 3 consecutive years, dracunculiasis was declared to be endemic in 2012 (6,7).
In 2016, Chad reported 16 cases (nine contained) in 12 villages, compared with nine cases (none contained) in 2015.
During the first half of 2017, eight cases (six contained) were reported in eight villages.
One of 12 villages that reported a case in 2016, and one of eight reporting a case during January–June 2017, had reported a case previously.
In 2012, Guinea worm infections were first reported in domestic dogs in Chad (6), and since then, more dogs than humans have been identified with emerging Guinea worms.
This substantial number of nonhuman infections has not occurred in any other country during the eradication campaign.
Worm specimens obtained from dogs were determined to be genetically indistinguishable from D.
medinensis worms removed from humans in Chad (6).
A majority of infections during the current outbreak have occurred in communities along the Chari River.
The Carter Center has assisted the ministry of health in implementing active village-based surveillance for the disease in approximately 1,700 villages in the at-risk zone.
The working hypothesis, on the basis of biologic, environmental, and epidemiologic investigations by CDC and the Carter Center, is that the cases in humans and infected dogs are associated with the domestic and commercial fishing industry along the Chari River and involve fish, frogs, or other aquatic hosts that serve as paratenic hosts (intermediate hosts in which no development of the parasite occurs).
New infections are thought to occur when humans consume inadequately cooked paratenic hosts and when such hosts are consumed raw by dogs (6).
Overall, 1,011 infected dogs (and 11 infected domestic cats) were reported during 2016, which was twice the number of infected dogs (503) reported in 2015.
However, during January–June 2017, 537 infected dogs were reported, which is an 18% decrease from the 653 reported during the same period of 2016.
This is the first such half-yearly reduction since infected dogs were first reported in 2012, and it reflects consecutive months of declining dog infections that began in November 2016 (3).
Beginning in October 2013, Chad’s Guinea Worm Eradication Program urged villagers to cook their fish well, bury fish entrails, and prevent dogs from eating fish entrails.
By June 2017, according to monthly sample surveys, this intervention was being implemented by approximately 81% of respondents in surveyed communities with populations at risk.
In February 2014, health education measures began to persuade villagers to tether infected dogs until the worms emerged, to prevent contamination of water and infection of copepods.
In February 2015, the program introduced a reward equivalent to US$20 for reporting and tethering an infected dog.
Whereas 40%, 68%, and 68% of infected dogs were tethered in 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively, 78% of 537 infected dogs reported during January–June 2017 were tethered.
Beginning before 2010, Chad has offered a cash reward equivalent to US$100 for reporting a human case of dracunculiasis.
In areas under active surveillance, 69% of 383 residents surveyed during January–June 2017 knew of the cash reward for reporting a case of dracunculiasis, and 60% of 363 persons surveyed knew of the cash reward for reporting and tethering an infected dog.
As of June 2017, 68% of villages with endemic dracunculiasis had safe water (i.e., water sources free of copepods, such as rapidly flowing rivers, protected hand dug wells, and borehole wells).
Temephos use is limited by the extremely large lagoons used for fishing and as sources of drinking water.
Starting in August 2014, an innovative technique of applying temephos to smaller cordoned sections of the lagoons at entry points used by infected humans or dogs was introduced and used to protect 19, 29, 61, and 51 villages in 2014, 2015, 2016, and January–June 2017, respectively.
The Carter Center and WHO Collaborating Center for Dracunculiasis Eradication at CDC are supporting research to better understand the unusual epidemiology of the current outbreak of dracunculiasis in Chad, assess antihelminthic treatment of dogs to prevent maturation of worms, and study the food sources and movements of dogs in an area of Chad with endemic disease.
In collaboration with researchers from the University of Georgia, this initiative has demonstrated that D.
medinensis can use an amphibian (frog) (8) as a paratenic host in the laboratory (8) and has recovered, for the first time, a Dracunculus larva from a frog captured in the wild in Chad (9).
In 2016, Ethiopia reported three cases of dracunculiasis (two contained), in two villages of the Gog district and one village of the Lare district of Gambella Region.
This is the same number of cases that Ethiopia reported in 2015 and in 2014.
(The origin of the third case, which was reported in September 2016, is unclear, because the patient entered Ethiopia from South Sudan approximately 1 year before emergence of his Guinea worm).
Ethiopia also reported 14 infected domestic dogs and two infected baboons in 2016, compared with 13 infected dogs and one infected baboon in 2015, all in the same area of the Gog district.
During January–June 2017, Ethiopia reported no human case, eight infected dogs, and four infected baboons.
However, in the same area of the Gog district, there were two cases in humans, two infected dogs, and no infected baboons during the same period of 2016.
The program applied temephos monthly to almost all water sources known to have been used by humans in the at-risk area throughout 2015, increased coverage threefold to include numerous smaller water sources in 2016, and is addressing additional gaps in identification of water sources related to a particular stream in the at-risk area in 2017.
A cash reward, equivalent to US$20 for reporting an infected animal was introduced, and the ministry of health held three press conferences to publicize the eradication effort during 2016.
There are 152 villages under active surveillance in three districts of Gambella Region.
Ethiopia offers a cash reward equivalent to US$100 for reporting a case of dracunculiasis.
Among 11,712 persons surveyed in the Gog district during January–June 2017, 82% were aware of the reward for reporting an infected person; 61% of 2,123 surveyed knew of the reward for reporting an infected animal.
In 2016, Mali reported no human cases of dracunculiasis for the first time since its eradication program began, compared with five cases reported from three villages in 2015.
Mali reported one infected dog for the first time in 2015 and 11 infected dogs (eight contained) in 2016.
Two infected dogs (one contained) were reported during January–June 2017, compared with one dog (contained), during the same period of 2016.
All infected dogs were detected in the Tominian district of Segou Region, but many had been imported from other areas of Segou or adjacent Mopti Region, in which certain areas were inaccessible to the program because of insecurity.
Mali has 455 villages under active surveillance.
Mali offers a cash reward equivalent to US$100 for reporting a case of dracunculiasis and US$20 for reporting and tethering an infected dog.
In areas under active surveillance, 79% of 23,943 persons surveyed in 2016 were aware of the cash reward for reporting a case.
During January–June 2017, 80% of 2,190 persons surveyed were aware of the reward for reporting a case, and 88% of 819 persons surveyed were aware of the reward for reporting and tethering an infected dog.
South Sudan.
South Sudan reported six cases of dracunculiasis (three contained) from four villages in 2016, all west of the Nile, compared with five cases (three contained) reported from five villages in 2015.
The country reported no infected dogs in 2016, compared with one in 2015, which has been the only infected dog found in South Sudan to date.
South Sudan has reported no cases during January–June 2017, compared with four cases (three contained) reported during the same period of 2016.
South Sudan has 3,860 villages under active surveillance.
In April 2014, South Sudan began offering a cash reward equivalent to approximately US$125 for reporting a case of dracunculiasis (10).
The overall level of reward awareness among 495 persons queried in active surveillance areas in 2016 was 76%.
In March 2017, the ministry of health doubled its cash reward for reporting a case of dracunculiasis to 10,000 South Sudanese pounds (approximately US$139) to adjust for inflation and introduced a cash reward (approximately US$20) for reporting and tethering an infected animal.
Coverage with interventions in villages with endemic disease remains high (except for provision of safe sources of drinking water) (Table 2), despite increased insecurity having forced the evacuation of most expatriate staff members assisting the South Sudan Guinea Worm Eradication Program since early July 2016.
Top Discussion The number of countries reporting endemic dracunculiasis decreased from four in 2015 to three in 2016, to only one country (Chad), which reported eight cases during January–June 2017.
This compares with 10 cases reported by Chad, Ethiopia, and South Sudan during January–June 2016 and indicates that the goal of complete eradication of the disease is closer.
The decrease in the number of infected dogs in Chad for the first time during January–June 2017 is another favorable milestone.
Led by their ministers of health, Mali and Chad have launched enhanced national communication campaigns in March and July 2017, respectively, to increase awareness of rewards for reporting cases and knowledge of prevention messages; South Sudan and Ethiopia plan to launch similar campaigns later in 2017.
Political support for Guinea worm eradication remains strong in South Sudan and has improved recently in Chad, Ethiopia, and Mali.
The health ministers of all four countries attended or were represented at the annual informal meeting of countries with current or former endemic dracunculiasis at the World Health Assembly in Geneva, Switzerland, in May 2016, and at the International Review Meeting for Guinea Worm Eradication Program Managers held at The Carter Center in March 2016.
Mali’s Minister of Health visited an area with endemic disease in June 2016, whereas South Sudan’s Minster of Health and the regional Vice President of Gambella, Ethiopia, visited such areas in their countries in September 2016.
In June 2017, Chad’s National Assembly convened a special session for a briefing on that country’s Guinea Worm Eradication Program.
Insecurity remains a serious challenge to program activities, especially in Mali and South Sudan.
Additional interventions, including increased use of temephos and trials of potential anthelminthic treatments for infected dogs are beginning or underway in Chad.
In addition, scientists are researching aspects of the parasite’s biology, life cycle, and molecular composition, and dog ecology.
Furthermore, a case-control study of humans and dogs in households with and without infected dogs is planned in Chad for early 2018.
Top Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported.
Top Corresponding author: Sharon L.
Roy, slroy@cdc.gov, 404-718-4698.
Top 1The Carter Center, Atlanta, Georgia; 2Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, Center for Global Health, World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Research, Training, and Eradication of Dracunculiasis, CDC.
Top *  .
† Transmission from a patient with dracunculiasis is contained only if all of the following conditions are met for each emerged worm: 1) the infected patient is identified ≤24 hours after worm emergence; 2) the patient has not entered any water source because the worm emerged; 3) a village volunteer or other health care provider has managed the patient properly, by cleaning and bandaging the lesion until the worm has been fully removed manually and by providing health education to discourage the patient from contaminating any water source (if two or more emerging worms are present, transmission is not contained until the last worm is removed); 4) the containment process, including verification of dracunculiasis, is validated by a Guinea Worm Eradication Program supervisor within 7 days of emergence of the worm; and 5) temephos is used to treat potentially contaminated surface water if any uncertainty about contamination of these sources of drinking water exists, or if such a source of drinking water is known to have been contaminated.
§ An indigenous case of dracunculiasis is defined as an infection consisting of a skin lesion or lesions with emergence of one or more Guinea worms in a person who had no history of travel outside their residential locality during the preceding year.
Top References Hopkins DR, Ruiz-Tiben E, Eberhard ML, Roy SL, Weiss AJ.
Progress toward global eradication of dracunculiasis—January 2015–June 2016.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2016;65:1112–6.
CrossRef Watts SJ.
Dracunculiasis in Africa in 1986: its geographic extent, incidence, and at-risk population.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1987;37:119–25.
CrossRef PubMed World Health Organization.
Dracunculiasis eradication: global surveillance summary, 2016.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2017;92:269–86.
PubMed Hopkins DR, Ruiz-Tiben E, Weiss A, Withers PC Jr, Eberhard ML, Roy SL.
Dracunculiasis eradication: and now, South Sudan.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2013;89:5–10.
CrossRef PubMed Ruiz-Tiben E, Hopkins DR.
Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) eradication.
Adv Parasitol 2006;61:275–309.
CrossRef PubMed Eberhard ML, Ruiz-Tiben E, Hopkins DR, et al.
The peculiar epidemiology of dracunculiasis in Chad.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2014;90:61–70.
CrossRef PubMed CDC.
Renewed transmission of dracunculiasis—Chad, 2010.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60:744–8.
PubMed Eberhard ML, Yabsley MJ, Zirimwabagabo H, et al.
Possible role of fish and frogs as paratenic hosts of Dracunculus medinensis, Chad.
Emerg Infect Dis 2016;22:1428–30.
CrossRef PubMed Eberhard ML, Cleveland CA, Zirimwabagabo H, Yabsley MJ, Ouakou PT, Ruiz-Tiben E.
Guinea worm (Dracunculus medinensis) infection in a wild-caught frog, Chad.
Emerg Infect Dis 2016;22:1961–2.
CrossRef PubMed World Health Organization.
Meeting of the International Task Force for Disease Eradication, April 2015.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2015;90:384–92.
PubMed Top TABLE 1.
Number of reported indigenous human dracunculiasis cases, by country –– worldwide, January 2015–June 2017 Country Cases by period Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2016 % Change Jan–Dec 2015 to Jan–Dec 2016 Jan–Jun, 2016* Jan–Jun, 2017 % Change Jan–Jun 2016 to Jan–Jun 2017 No.
(% contained) No.
(% contained) Chad 9 16 (56) 78 4 8 (75) 100 Ethiopia 3 3 (67) 0 2 0 (—) –100 Mali† 5 0 (—) –100 0 0 (—) 0 South Sudan 5 6 (50) 20 4 0 (—) –100 Total 22 25 (56) 14 10 8 (75) -20 * No international importations were reported during the 18-month period January 2016–June 2017.
† Civil unrest and insecurity continued to constrain program operations in regions with endemic dracunculiasis (Gao, Kidal, Mopti, and Timbuktu) during 2016–2017.
Top TABLE 2.
Reported human dracunculiasis cases, surveillance, and status of local interventions in villages with endemic disease, by country –– worldwide, 2016 Cases/Surveillance/Intervention status Country Chad* Ethiopia Mali† South Sudan Total Reported cases No.
indigenous, 2016 16 3 0 6 25 No.
imported,§ 2016 0 0 0 0 0 % Contained¶ in 2016 56 67 0 50 56 % Change in indigenous cases in villages/localities under surveillance, same period 2015 and 2016 78 0 –100 20 14 Villages under active surveillance, 2016 No.
of villages 1,799 152 450 2,736 5,137 % Reporting monthly 100 89 100 99 99 No.
reporting ≥1 case 8 3 0 5 16 No.
reporting only imported** cases 0 0 0 0 0 No.
reporting indigenous cases 8 3 0 5 16 Status of interventions in villages with endemic dracunculiasis, 2015–2016 No.
of villages with endemic dracunculiasis 20 5 3 9 37 % Reporting monthly†† 100 100 100 100 100 % Filters in all households†† 100 100 100 100 100 % Using temephos†† 30 100 100 100 60 % ≥1 safe water source†† 73 100 66 56 62 % Providing health education†† 100 100 100 100 100 * Participants at the annual Chad Guinea Worm Eradication Program review meeting in November 2014 adopted “1+ case village” as a new description for villages in Chad affected by human cases of Guinea worm disease or dogs infected with Guinea worms and defined as “a village with one or more indigenous or imported cases of Guinea worm infections in humans, dogs, or cats in the current calendar year or previous year.” † Civil unrest and insecurity continued to constrain Guinea Worm Eradication Program operations (supervision, surveillance, and interventions in Gao, Kidal, and Timbuktu regions).
§ Imported from another country.
¶ Transmission from a patient with dracunculiasis is contained only if all of the following conditions are met for each emerged worm: 1) the infected patient is identified ≤24 hours after worm emergence; 2) the patient has not entered any water source because the worm emerged; 3) a village volunteer or other health care provider has managed the patient properly, by cleaning and bandaging the lesion until the worm has been fully removed manually and by providing health education to discourage the patient from contaminating any water source (if two or more emerging worms are present, transmission is not contained until the last worm is removed); 4) the containment process, including verification of dracunculiasis, is validated by a Guinea Worm Eradication Program supervisor within 7 days of emergence of the worm; and 5) temephos is used to treat potentially contaminated surface water if any uncertainty about contamination of these sources of drinking water exists, or if a such a source of drinking water is known to have been contaminated.
** Imported from another in-country village with endemic disease.
†† The denominator is the number of endemic villages/localities where the program applied interventions during 2015–2016.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Hopkins DR, Ruiz-Tiben E, Eberhard ML, Roy SL, Weiss AJ.
Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis, January 2016–June 2017.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:1327–1331.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis — Worldwide, January 2021–June 2022 Weekly / November 25, 2022 / 71(47);1496–1502 Print Donald R.
Hopkins, MD1; Adam J.
Weiss, MPH1; Sarah Yerian, MPH1; Sarah G.H.
Sapp, PhD2; Vitaliano A.
Cama, PhD2 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Human cases of dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) have decreased from an estimated 3.5 million in 1986 to 15 in 2021.
Emergence of Guinea worm infections in dogs in 2012 has complicated eradication efforts.
What is added by this report?
Fifteen cases in humans were reported in 2021 and three during January–June 2022.
As of November 2022, dracunculiasis remained endemic in five countries (Angola, Chad, Ethiopia, Mali, and South Sudan).
What are the implications for public health practice?
With only 15 human cases identified in 2021 and three during January–June 2022, program efforts appear to be closer to reaching the goal of eradication.
However, dog infections and impeded access because of civil unrest and insecurity in Mali and South Sudan continue to be the greatest challenges for the program.
medinensis larvae.
Recent evidence suggests that the parasite also appears to be transmitted by eating fish or other aquatic animals.
About 1 year after infection, the worm typically emerges through the skin on a lower limb of the host, causing pain and disability (1).
No vaccine or medicine is available to prevent or treat dracunculiasis.
Eradication relies on case containment* to prevent water contamination and other interventions to prevent infection, including health education, water filtration, treatment of unsafe water with temephos (an organophosphate larvicide), and provision of safe drinking water (1,2).
CDC began worldwide eradication efforts in October 1980, and in 1984 was designated by the World Health Organization (WHO) as the technical monitor of the Dracunculiasis Eradication Program (1).
In 1986, with an estimated 3.5 million cases† occurring annually in 20 African and Asian countries§ (3), the World Health Assembly called for dracunculiasis elimination.
The Guinea Worm Eradication Program (GWEP),¶ led by The Carter Center and supported by partners that include WHO, UNICEF, and CDC, began assisting ministries of health in countries with endemic disease.
In 2021, a total of 15 human cases were identified and three were identified during January–June 2022.
As of November 2022, dracunculiasis remained endemic in five countries (Angola, Chad, Ethiopia, Mali, and South Sudan); cases reported in Cameroon were likely imported from Chad.
Eradication efforts in these countries are challenged by infection in animals, the COVID-19 pandemic, civil unrest, and insecurity.
Animal infections, mostly in domestic dogs, some domestic cats, and in Ethiopia, a few baboons, have now surpassed human cases, with 863 reported animal infections in 2021 and 296 during January–June 2022.
During the COVID-19 pandemic all national GWEPs remained fully operational, implementing precautions to ensure safety of program staff members and community members.
In addition, the progress toward eradication and effectiveness of interventions were reviewed at the 2021 and 2022 annual meetings of GWEP program managers, and the 2021 meeting of WHO’s International Commission for the Certification of Dracunculiasis Eradication.
With only 15 human cases identified in 2021 and three during January–June 2022, program efforts appear to be closer to reaching the goal of eradication.
However, dog infections and impeded access because of civil unrest and insecurity in Mali and South Sudan continue to be the greatest challenges for the program.
This report describes progress during January 2021–June 2022 and updates previous reports (2,4).
In affected countries, the national GWEP receives monthly case reports from supervised volunteers in each village under active surveillance.** Villages in which endemic transmission has ended (i.e., zero human cases or animal infections reported for ≥12 consecutive months) are kept under active surveillance for 2 additional years.
WHO certifies a country as dracunculiasis-free after adequate nationwide surveillance for ≥3 consecutive years with no indigenous human cases or animal infections.†† Since 1986, WHO has certified 199 countries, areas, and territories as dracunculiasis-free; only the five countries with endemic dracunculiasis, plus the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sudan still lack certification.§§ Representatives of seven countries with current or former endemic dracunculiasis, the United Arab Emirates, The Carter Center, and WHO renewed their commitment to completing Guinea worm eradication at a Guinea Worm Summit in Abu Dhabi in March 2022.
In 2021, Chad, Ethiopia, Mali, and South Sudan reported 15 human cases compared with 27 human cases in 2020, the smallest number of human cases ever reported annually (Table 1).
Cameroon, Chad, Ethiopia, and Mali reported 863 infected animals (mostly dogs), compared with 1,601 animal infections reported in 2020.
During January–June 2022, three human cases and 296 infected animals were reported, representing 40% and 34% reductions in human cases and animal infections, respectively, compared with five human cases and 450 infected animals reported during January–June 2021 (Table 2).
During January–June 2022, CDC received 20 specimens from humans for morphologic or molecular identification, including three (15%) that were laboratory-confirmed D.
medinensis¶¶ (Table 3), compared with 13 specimens received and five (38%) confirmed during January–June 2021.
During the first 6 months of 2022, CDC received 12 animal specimens, 10 of which were laboratory-confirmed D.
medinensis, compared with six confirmed among 36 specimens received during January–June 2021.
Previous genetic studies confirmed that Guinea worms collected from both animals and humans are D.
medinensis (5).
This activity was reviewed by CDC and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.*** Top Country Reports Angola.
Details of the unexpected discovery of dracunculiasis in three persons during 2018–2020 who had no history of foreign travel and in one dog in 2019 have been described.
During March 29, 2020–March 28, 2022, no cases among humans or dogs were detected during ongoing active surveillance in 61 villages and routine integrated case searches (e.g., during National Immunization Days); seven infected dogs were detected during March–May 2022 in the same province as the previous human cases and dog infections (Table 2).
Angola offers cash reward equivalent to US$450 for reporting an infected human or animal.
Genetic analysis of Angola’s Guinea worm specimens did not help elucidate a source because no clear link to other previously analyzed D.
medinensis was detected (6).
Chad reported eight human cases among eight villages in 2021 (Table 1).
During the first half of 2022, Chad reported three human cases, compared with four human cases reported during January–June 2021.
In 2021, Chad reported 833 animal infections (767 dogs and 66 cats), compared with 1,571 (1,508 dogs and 63 cats) reported in 2020 (Table 2).
During January–June 2022, 43% fewer infected dogs (239) and 67% more infected cats (25) were reported compared with data from January–June 2021.
In Chad, transmission of D.
medinensis is hypothesized to have occurred from consumption of inadequately cooked fish, other aquatic transport hosts, or paratenic hosts (infected hosts in which the larval parasite does not develop) (7).
As of June 2022, The Carter Center has been helping Chad’s Ministry of Health in implementing village-based surveillance for animal and human infections in 2,438 at-risk villages, an increase of 80 villages compared with the 2,358 in December 2021 (Table 1).
The active surveillance generated 41,135 rumored reports about possible Guinea worm infections among humans or dogs during January–June 2022, a 33% decline compared with 61,341 rumored reports during the same period in 2021.
Since 2010, Chad’s Ministry of Health has offered a reward equivalent to US$100 for reporting a confirmed human dracunculiasis case.
In addition, since 2013, Chad’s GWEP implemented educational interventions to avoid transmission through fish or fish entrails.
Reporting and tethering dogs with dracunculiasis-compatible signs started in 2014, and this intervention was enhanced in 2015 with a US$20 equivalent reward for reporting confirmed infected dogs.
In 2017, the program initiated the systematic use of temephos, focusing on small ponds in villages with the most infected dogs, and launched a nationwide communication campaign to increase awareness about the reporting and prevention of Guinea worm infection.
In March 2020, Chad launched a new strategy to tether all dogs proactively during the 4 months of peak dracunculiasis incidence in all villages with five or more dracunculiasis infections during the previous year, and is currently working to expand proactive tethering among all villages reporting one or more dog infections.
Since June 2017, monitoring and evaluation efforts have indicated that approximately 81% of households assessed monthly in at-risk communities were burying fish entrails to avoid consumption by dogs, and 81% and 70% of eligible dogs were tethered in 2021 and during January–June 2022, respectively.
The decrease in tethering coverage reflects the expansion of the intervention in 2022 to include all villages with one or more infections compared with 2021 when only villages with three or more infections were included.
Water treatment with temephos reached 61% of 348 villages with dog (340) or human (eight) infections by December 2021 and 68% of 82 villages by June 2022.
In December 2021, 79% of villages reporting infections among dogs or humans had at least one source of copepod-free drinking water.
In areas under surveillance in Chad, 92% of residents surveyed in 2021, and 70% of those surveyed during January–June 2022 were aware of the cash rewards for reporting human or animal infections.
These additional actions might be favorably affecting the elimination of dracunculiasis, and these effects will continue to be assessed.
Investigations indicate that dogs were likely infected in Chad, because the affected villages include families that permanently live on both sides of the border, and owners of infected dogs reportedly took their dogs to Chad during the period when the dogs would have become infected.
During 2021, Ethiopia reported one human case and three infected animals (two dogs and one cat); no human case or infected animal was reported during January–June 2022 (Table 2), and for the first time in 9 years, no infected baboons were detected during January 2021–June 2022.
For the past several years, all animal infections and human cases have occurred in Gog district of Gambella Region.
Since 2017, The Carter Center has supported Ethiopia’s public health and wildlife authorities in a baboon and dog epidemiology project (4).
Since 2021, the Ethiopia Dracunculiasis Eradication Program has conducted active surveillance of 198 villages and 201 nonvillage areas (e.g., commercial farms and temporary hunting settlements).
The program applies temephos monthly to nearly all water sources known to have been used by humans in the at-risk area of Gog district.
Beginning in 2022, remote sensing data from Maxar Technologies is identifying new water sources that need to be treated.
Since April 2018, among villages in which infected animals were most commonly detected, Ethiopia has supported villager-initiated, constant tethering of approximately 1,900 dogs and cats to prevent their exposure to water sources in adjacent forests in which transmission apparently occurs (4).
In 2018, Ethiopia increased its reward for reporting human dracunculiasis cases to an equivalent of US$360 and for reporting and tethering infected animals to US$40.
In 2021, 92% of persons surveyed in active surveillance areas knew of the rewards; in January–May 2022, 96% were aware.
In May 2022, the minister of health visited areas with endemic dracunculiasis to promote and support dracunculiasis eradication efforts.
Mali reported two human cases in 2021, and none during January–June 2022, compared with one case in 2020 and none during January–June 2021 (Table 2).
In 2021, one infected cat and 16 infected dogs were reported, compared with nine dogs and no cats in 2020.
During January–June 2022, Mali reported two confirmed infected dogs, the same number reported during January–June 2021.
Among the 16 infected dogs identified in all of 2021, 10 were detected in Segou Region and six were detected in the adjacent Mopti Region.
Segou Region is accessible to the program, but the dogs were bred and apparently became infected in areas of Mopti Region that have remained partly inaccessible to the program since 2012 because of civil unrest.
The two infected dogs were detected and reportedly contained during January–June 2022 in Segou Region.
In 2021 Mali had 2,216 villages under active surveillance (Table 1), with cash rewards equivalent to US$340 for reporting a human case and an equivalent of US$20 for reporting and tethering an infected animal.
In areas under active surveillance in 2021, 90% of persons queried knew of the rewards for reporting an infected person or animal, and in January–June 2022, 92% and 81% knew of the rewards for reporting an infected person or animal, respectively.
In addition, Mali introduced proactive tethering of some dogs late in 2021.
South Sudan.
South Sudan reported four human cases in 2021, compared with one in 2020 (Table 2).
No human cases or infected animals were reported during January–June 2021 or January–June 2022.
Only one infected animal has ever been reported (in 2015), which belonged to a household in which a human infection had occurred.
The high population mobility of cattle herders and others in South Sudan presents a special challenge, in addition to sporadic insecurity.
By December 2021, South Sudan’s GWEP had 2,174 villages under active surveillance (Table 1).
The reward for reporting a case of dracunculiasis or an infected animal is approximately equivalent to US$75.
A 2021 survey of residents found 84% of respondents knew of the reward for reporting an infected person.
Top Discussion Stopping dracunculiasis transmission among dogs in Chad is now the principal challenge to the GWEP.
During January 2021–June 2022, Chad reported 1,108 (94%) of the world’s 1,177 D.
medinensis infections, 1,059 (96%) of which were in dogs.
In a pattern peculiar to Chad, Guinea worm infections there usually affect many dogs and few humans (7).
This challenge is being addressed through innovative interventions and research supported by The Carter Center, WHO, and CDC.
Also involved are multiple research institutions helping to understand the unusual epidemiology of dracunculiasis in the remaining affected countries and assessing antihelminthic treatment of dogs (8).
Research from the University of Georgia indicated that fish could serve as transport hosts for Dracunculus spp.
and that D.
medinensis can use frogs as paratenic hosts.††† In addition, Dracunculus larvae have been recovered from multiple wild frogs in Chad (9,10).
If the hypothesis that the parasite’s life cycle in Chad involves a transport or paratenic host is correct (10), increased active surveillance, proactive tethering of dogs, temephos application, and fish entrail burial should reduce transmission.
The reductions in human cases and infected dogs in Chad in January 2021–June 2022 suggests that these interventions are successful.
Adequate security is important to achieving eradication goals, especially in Mali and South Sudan.
In 2021, Mali reported two human cases, whereas the endemic transmission of Guinea worm among dogs and cats appears to be geographically limited.
In 2020, the program in Chad began working with ministry of health, regional, and local leaders in a Peace-Health Initiative to reduce insecurity in one district with endemic dracunculiasis and expanded to four districts in 2022.
South Sudan is poised to achieve zero-case status soon as a result of strong technical leadership, strong governmental political support, and no known animal infections, highlighting the importance of maintaining adequate security.
Areas of transmission in Ethiopia and Angola are limited.
In 2021, Ethiopia reported one human case, and animal infections appear to be geographically limited.
The ecologic study of baboons and proactive tethering of dogs in Gog district might help clarify the dynamics of residual Guinea worm infections in Ethiopia and identified the likely sources of all four infections in 2021.
Now Ethiopia appears close to interrupting transmission.
In Angola, three confirmed human cases and seven infected dogs reported between 2018 and 2022 suggest that the problem in this country is limited, but active surveillance throughout the areas at risk, and appropriate control measures and investigations are still needed.
The identification of dracunculiasis cases in villages in Cameroon that border areas in Chad with endemic dracunculiasis highlights the risks for exportation and the need for ongoing active surveillance and appropriate control measures in neighboring countries (Cameroon and Central African Republic).
The current prominence of infections in domestic dogs and cats requires increased measures to limit those animals’ access to water sources for human consumption and waste from discarded fish and other aquatic animals.
With only 15 human cases identified in 2021 and three during January–June 2022, program efforts appear to be closer to reaching the goal of eradication.
However, dog infections and impeded access because of civil unrest and insecurity in Mali and South Sudan continue to be the greatest challenges for the program.
Top Corresponding author: Vitaliano A.
Cama, vec5@cdc.gov, 404-718-4131.
Top 1The Carter Center, Atlanta, Georgia; 2World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Dracunculiasis Eradication, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, Center for Global Health, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * Human cases are contained when all of the following criteria are met: 1) infected patients are identified ≤24 hours after worm emergence; 2) patients have not entered any water source since worm emergence; 3) a village volunteer/health care provider properly treats the lesion until all detectable worms are fully removed and educates the patient not to contaminate water sources; 4) the containment process is validated by a GWEP supervisor ≤7 days after worm emergence; and 5) all contaminated and potentially contaminated sources of drinking water are treated with temephos.
† A dracunculiasis case is defined as an infection occurring in a person exhibiting a skin lesion or lesions with emergence of one or more worms that is laboratory-confirmed as Dracunculus medinensis at CDC.
medinensis has a 10–14-month incubation period, each infected person is counted as having a case only once during a calendar year.
§ Initially 20 countries, but the former country of Sudan officially separated into two countries (Sudan and South Sudan) on July 9, 2011.
¶  ** Villages under active surveillance are those that have endemic dracunculiasis or are at high risk for importation.
Active surveillance involves daily searches of households by village volunteers (supported by their supervisors) for persons or animals with signs of dracunculiasis.
†† An indigenous dracunculiasis human case or animal infection is defined as an infection consisting of a skin lesion or lesions with emergence of one or more Guinea worms in a person or animal who had no history of travel outside their residential locality during the preceding year.
§§  ¶¶ Specimens are laboratory-confirmed as D.
medinensis at CDC by morphologic examination under a microscope or polymerase chain reaction assay.
 *** 45 C.F.R.
part 46.102(l)(2), 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
††† An intermediate host in which no parasite development occurs but which serves to maintain the viability of larval stages of a parasite.
Top References Ruiz-Tiben E, Hopkins DR.
Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) eradication.
Adv Parasitol 2006;61:275–309.
 PMID:16735167 Hopkins DR, Weiss AJ, Roy SL, Yerian S, Cama VA.
Progress toward global eradication of dracunculiasis—January 2020–June 2021.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2021;70:1527–33.
 PMID:34735420 Watts SJ.
Dracunculiasis in Africa in 1986: its geographic extent, incidence, and at-risk population.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 1987;37:119–25.
 PMID:2955710 Hopkins DR, Weiss A, Torres-Velez FJ, Sapp SGH, Ijaz K.
Dracunculiasis eradication: end-stage challenges.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2022;107:373–82.
 PMID:35895421 Thiele EA, Eberhard ML, Cotton JA, et al.
Population genetic analysis of Chadian Guinea worms reveals that human and non-human hosts share common parasite populations.
PLoS Negl Trop Dis 2018;12:e0006747.
 PMID:35895421 Durrant C, Thiele EA, Holroyd N, et al.
Population genomic evidence that human and animal infections in Africa come from the same populations of Dracunculus medinensis.
PLoS Negl Trop Dis 2020;14:e0008623.
 PMID:30286084 Eberhard ML, Ruiz-Tiben E, Hopkins DR, et al.
The peculiar epidemiology of dracunculiasis in Chad.
Am J Trop Med Hyg 2014;90:61–70.
 PMID:24277785 World Health Organization.
Meeting of the International Task Force for Disease Eradication, October 2017.
Wkly Epidemiol Rec 2018;93:33–8.
PMID:29372633 Eberhard ML, Yabsley MJ, Zirimwabagabo H, et al.
Possible role of fish and frogs as paratenic hosts of Dracunculus medinensis, Chad.
Emerg Infect Dis 2016;22:1428–30.
 PMID:27434418 Cleveland CA, Eberhard ML, Thompson AT, et al.
A search for tiny dragons (Dracunculus medinensis third-stage larvae) in aquatic animals in Chad, Africa.
Sci Rep 2019;9:375.
 PMID:30675007 Top TABLE 1.
Reported dracunculiasis human cases and animal infections, surveillance, and status of local interventions in villages with endemic disease, by country — worldwide, 2021 Human cases/Surveillance/Intervention status Country Chad* Ethiopia Mali† South Sudan Angola Total Reported human cases No.
indigenous 8 1 2 4 0 15 No.
imported§ 0 0 0 0 0 0 % Contained¶ (no./total no.) 75 (6/8) 100 50 (1/2) 25 (1/4) NA 60 (9/15) % Change (no.
change) in indigenous human cases in villages/localities under surveillance , 2020–2021 −38 (13 to 8) −91 (11 to 1) 100 (1 to 2) 300 (1 to 4) −100 (1 to 0) −44 (27 to 15) Reported animal cases No.
indigenous 843** 3 17 0 0 863 No.
imported†† 0 0 0 0 0 0 % Contained¶ (no./total no.) 81 (681/843) 67 (2/3) 59 (10/17) NA NA 80 (693/863) % Change (no.
of cases in 2020) in indigenous animal infections in villages or localities under surveillance −47 (1,577) −80 (15) 89 (9) NA NA −46 (1,601) Villages under active surveillance, 2021 No.
of villages 2,358 198 2,216 2,174 61 7,007 No.
(%) reporting monthly 2,358 (100) 198 (100) 2,216 (100) 1,975 (91) 8 (13) 6,755 (96) No.
reporting ≥1 human case 8 1 1 4 0 14 No.
reporting only imported†† human cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 No.
reporting indigenous human cases 8 1 1 4 0 14 No.
reporting ≥1 animal infection 321 3 10 0 0 334 No.
reporting only imported†† animal infections 0 0 0 0 0 0 No.
reporting indigenous animal infections 321 3 10 0 0 334 Status of interventions in villages with human dracunculiasis, 2021 No.
of villages with human dracunculiasis, 2021 8 1 1 4 NA 14 % Reporting monthly§§ (no./total no.) 75 (6/8) 100 (1/1) 100 (1/1) 100 (4/4) NA 86 (12/14) % Filters in all households§§ (no./total no.) 38 (3/8) 100 (1/1) 100 (1/1) 100 (4/4) NA 64 (9/14) % Using temephos§§ 75 (6/8) 100 (1/1) 100 (1/1) 100 (4/4) NA 86 (12/14) % With ≥1 source of safe water§§ (no./total no.) 38 (3/8) 100 (1/1) 100 (1/1) 25 (1/4) NA 43 (6/14) % Provided health education§§ (no./total no.) 75 (6/8) 100 (1/1) 100 (1/1) 100 (4/4) NA 86 (12/14) Status of interventions in villages with animal dracunculiasis, 2021 No.of villages with animal dracunculiasis 2021 340 3 10 0 0 353 % Reporting monthly§§ (no./total no.) 95 (323/340) 100 (3/3) 100 (10/10) NA NA 95 (336/353) % Using temephos§§ (no./total no.) 61 (208/340) 100 (3/3) 100 (10/10) NA NA 63 (221/353) % Provided health education§§ (no./total no.) 95 (323/340) 100 (3/3) 100 (10/10) NA NA 95 (336/353) Abbreviations: GWEP = Guinea Worm Eradication Program; NA = not applicable.
* Participants at the annual Chad GWEP review meeting in November 2014 adopted “1+ case village” as a new description for villages in Chad affected by human cases of Guinea worm disease or dogs infected with Guinea worms and defined it as “a village with one or more indigenous and imported cases of Guinea worm infections in humans, dogs, and cats in the current calendar year or previous year.” † Civil unrest and insecurity since a coup d’état in 2012 continued to constrain GWEP operations (i.e., supervision, surveillance, and interventions) in regions with endemic dracunculiasis (Gao, Kidal, Mopti, Segou, and Timbuktu) during January 2020 – June 2021.
§ Imported from another country.
¶ Human cases are contained when all of the following criteria are met: 1) infected patients are identified ≤24 hours after worm emergence; 2) patients have not entered any water source since worm emergence; 3) a village volunteer/health care provider properly treats the lesion until all detectable worms are fully removed and educates the patient not to contaminate water sources; 4) the containment process is validated by a GWEP supervisor ≤7 days after worm emergence; and 5) all contaminated and potentially contaminated sources of drinking water are treated with temephos.
** Chad reported 833 animal cases in 2021.
Ten animal cases were reported from Cameroon in 2021, all in villages along the Chad-Cameroon border; these are believed to have been acquired in Chad.
†† Imported from another in-country disease-endemic village.
§§ The denominator is number of villages with endemic human dracunculiasis during 2020–2021.
Top TABLE 2.
Number of reported indigenous dracunculiasis cases, by country — worldwide, January 2020–June 2022 Country No.
(% contained) % Change Jan–Dec 2020 to Jan–Dec 2021 No.
(% contained) % Change Jan–Jun 2021 to Jan–Jun 2022 Jan–Dec 2020 Jan–Dec 2021 Jan–Jun 2021 Jan–Jun 2022 Human cases Chad 12 (42) 8 (75) −33 4 (75) 3 (33) −25 Ethiopia 11 (100) 1 (100) −91 1 (100) 0 (—) −100 Mali* 1 (0) 2 (50) 100 0 (—) 0 (—) NA South Sudan 1 (100) 4 (25) 300 0 (—) 0 (—) NA Angola 1 (0) 0 (—) −100 0 (—) 0 (—) NA Cameroon† 1 (100) 0 (—) −100 0 (—) 0 (—) NA Total 27 (67) 15 (60) −44 5 (80) 3 (33) −40 Animal infections§ Chad 1,571 (81) 833 (81) −47 438 (79) 264 (71) −40 Ethiopia 15 (73) 3 (67) −80 0 (—) 0 (—) NA Mali 9 (56) 17 (59) 89 2 (100) 2 (100) 0 Cameroon† 6 (100) 10 (100) 67 10 (100) 26 (100) 160 South Sudan 0 (—) 0 (—) NA 0 (—) 0 (—) NA Angola 0 (—) 0 (—) NA 0 (—) 7 (0) NA Total 1,601 (81) 863 (80) −46 450 (80) 299 (72) −34 Abbreviations: GWEP = Guinea Worm Eradication Program; NA = not applicable.
* Civil unrest and insecurity since a coup d’état in 2012 continued to constrain GWEP operations (i.e., supervision, surveillance, and interventions) in regions with endemic dracunculiasis (Gao, Kidal, Mopti, Segou, and Timbuktu) during January 2020–June 2021.
† One human case, 38 infected dogs, and one cat were detected in an area of Cameroon near the border with Chad during January 2020–June 2022; these infections are believed to have been acquired in Chad.
§ In 2021, Chad reported infections in dogs and some cats; Ethiopia reported infections in dogs, cats, and baboons; and Mali reported infections in dogs and one cat; in 2020, Angola reported infections in dogs and Cameroon in dogs and one cat.
Top TABLE 3.
Characteristics of specimens from humans and animals received at CDC for laboratory diagnosis of Dracunculus medinensis — January 2021–June 2022 Characteristic 2021 2022 Jan–Dec 2021 Jan–Jun 2021 Jul–Dec 2021 Jan–Jun 2022 Human specimens Total no.
received 45 13 32 20 No.
(%) positive* 14† (31) 5 (38) 9† (28) 3† (15) Country of origin, no.
of positive specimens (no.
of patients) Chad 7† (7) 4 (4) 3 (3) 3 (3) Ethiopia 1 (1) 1 (1) —§ — Mali 2 (2) — 2 (2) — South Sudan 4 (4) — 4 (4) — No (%) negative* 31 (68) 8 (62) 23 (72) 17 (85) Negative specimens, no.
(%) of other laboratory identifications Onchocerca sp.
— — — 6 (35) Free-living nematode¶ 8 (26) 2 (25) 6 (26) 1 (6) Other parasitic nematode** 2 (6) — 2 (9) 1 (6) Sparganum 5 (16) 3 (38) 2 (9) 3 (18) Cestode (non-sparganum) 1 (3) — 1 (4) — Annelid 2 (6) — 2 (9) — Animal-origin tissue 9 (29) 2 (25) 7 (30) 4 (24) Plant material 2 (6) — 2 (4) 2 (12) Unknown origin 2 (6) 1 (13) 1 (4) — Animal specimens Total no.
received 73 36 37 12 No.
(%) positive* 38 (52) 6 (17) 32 (86) 10 (83) Positive specimens, country/species of origin, no.
of specimens (no.
of animals) Angola Dog — — — 6 (6) Cameroon Dog 10 (10) — 10 — Central African Republic Dog 1 (1) 1 — — Chad Cat 2 (2) — 2 2 (2) Dog 4 (4) 2 2 — Other animals (wildcats) 2 (2) 1 1 — Ethiopia Cat 1 (1) — 1 — Dog 2 (2) — 2 — Mali Cat 1 (1) — 1 — Dog 15 (15) 2 13 2 (2) No.
(%) negative specimens*,†† 35 (48) ** 30 (83) 5 (14) 2 (17)§§ * Positive specimens were confirmed as D.
medinensis; negative specimens were ruled out as D.
medinensis.
† CDC received 15 specimens from human cases in 2022 and 14 in 2021.
The remaining specimen received in February 2022 was from a human case in Chad.
§ Dashes indicate no specimens received.
¶ Free-living nematodes primarily included adult Mermithidae and other nematodes identified as belonging to nonparasitic taxa.
Other parasitic nematodes included non-Onchocerca nematodes identified as belonging to parasitic taxa.
** Other parasitic nematodes submitted in association with human cases during January–December 2021 included one ascarid, a Eustrongylides-like nematode; in 2022, the one other parasitic nematode was ascarid.
†† The 35 negative specimens from animals were identified as follows: 24 Filaroidea from which three were Setaria sp., 12 were in the subfamily Dirofilariinae (e.g., Dirofilaria, Skjrabinodera), and nine were only identified at the superfamily level (Filarioidea); among the 11 remaining negative specimens five were free-living nematodes, two Mastophorus or Protospirura-like nematodes, one Eustrongylides sp., two were not identified past superfamily Spiruroidea, and one was a horsehair worm (Nematomorpha).
§§ One specimen was identified only at the superfamily level (Filarioidea), and the other was a nematode in the family Diplotriaenidae.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Hopkins DR, Weiss AJ, Yerian S, Sapp SG, Cama VA.
Progress Toward Global Eradication of Dracunculiasis — Worldwide, January 2021–June 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1496–1502.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All About Division of STD Prevention NOV.
7, 2024 Per a court order, HHS is required to restore this website to its version as of 12:00 AM on January 29, 2025.
Information on this page may be modified and/or removed in the future subject to the terms of the court’s order and implemented consistent with applicable law.
Any information on this page promoting gender ideology is extremely inaccurate and disconnected from truth.
The Trump Administration rejects gender ideology due to the harms and divisiveness it causes.
This page does not reflect reality and therefore the Administration and this Department reject it.
AT A GLANCE CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP) confronts the root causes of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) by improving care and treatment access for the nation’s most disproportionately affected persons.
We engage community, state, and national leaders and partners to serve the public and groups at higher risk of STIs and illness.
Our mission To maximize the impact of STI prevention through science, programs, and policy.
Priorities DSTDP concentrates its efforts on three priority populations to guide STI prevention and maximize long term impact.
Adolescents and young adults Men who have sex with men (MSM) Pregnant women Transgender individuals KEEP READING STI Prevention Priorities Goals GOAL 1.
Prevent new STIs 1.1.
Raise the visibility of sexual health, STIs, evidence-based screening guidelines, and support actionable conversations 1.2 Reduce syphilis among women of reproductive age to prevent cases of congenital syphilis 1.3 Reduce antimicrobial-resistant gonococcal (AR GC) infections domestically and internationally GOAL 2.
Improve the health of people by reducing poor health caused by STIs 2.1 Increase STI screening, treatment, management, and holistic care among all people, particularly priority populations 2.2 Expand workforce knowledge and experience, and healthcare systems capacity to implement quality STI prevention, screening, diagnosis, surveillance, and treatment 2.3 Support training, and expanded staff capacity, including DIS in programs and settings that serve communities and populations disproportionately impacted by STIs 2.4 Optimize, expand use of, and improve the effectiveness of expedited partner therapy, STI partner services, and linkage to care 2.5 Monitor and advance the understanding of burden and trends of STIs and their sequelae GOAL 3.
Accelerate Progress in STI research, prevention, and technology 3.1 Use translational, implementation, and communication science research to identify, evaluate, scale up, and promote best practices in STI prevention and treatment in diverse settings 3.2 Support the development and uptake of innovative STI diagnostics, prevention technologies, therapeutic agents, and other interventions for the prevention, identification, and treatment of STIs, including new and emerging disease threats 3.3 Support the development, assessment (or evaluation), and dissemination of innovative STI service delivery models in settings such as clinics, emergency departments, pharmacies, urgent care, correctional facilities, schools and school-based health centers, mental health programs, substance use disorder programs, retail clinics, and field and community settings 3.4 Promote and strengthen the use of innovative technologies and develop new mechanisms for accessing, analyzing, and disseminating data 3.5 Support research to better understand foundational STI biology and STI transmission dynamics GOAL 4.
Reduce STI-related health disparities and health inequities 4.1 Expand access to trauma-informed, stigma- and discrimination-free, culturally competent and linguistically appropriate STI prevention, care, and treatment services in communities disproportionately impacted by STIs 4.2 Support, monitor, evaluate, and disseminate programs and policies that reduce barriers to improve the delivery and receipt of services for communities and populations disproportionately impacted by STIs 4.3 Support development, assessment (or evaluation) and dissemination of interventions that address social and structural determinants of health (e.g., housing, transportation, food, racism, discrimination, education, job opportunities, etc.) and co-occurring conditions that impede access to STI services and exacerbate disparities GOAL 5.
Achieve integrated and coordinated efforts to address the STI epidemic 5.1 Maximize use of surveillance data 5.2 Expand accountability for STI prevention and control 5.3 Coordinate and align efforts to address the syndemic of HIV, STIs, viral hepatitis, and substance use disorders 5.4 Support health departments with technical assistance to address the STI epidemic GOAL 6.
Enhance and support an effective internal workforce 6.1 Work within DSTDP to increase professional development opportunities and retention 6.2 Work to improve morale, inclusiveness, and diversity of staff Resources STI Prevention Priorities STI National Strategic Plan About STI Funding From the Director CDC-INFO Have a question on STIs?
Need a publication?
Have a comment or suggestion about our website?
CDC-INFO provides general health information via telephone or e-mail on a wide variety of health topics, including STIs in response to common questions from the public and healthcare workers.
CDC-INFO's operating hours are 8am-8pm ET/Monday-Friday.
Closed holidays.
Telephone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) TTY: 1-888-232-6348 Contact CDC-INFO ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Goals Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Schistosomiasis EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Prevention Fast Facts Schistosomiasis Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care and Treatment VIEW ALL View All MARCH 11, 2024 Clinical Testing and Diagnosis for Schistosomiasis KEY POINTS Symptom presentation varies due to different species of the schistosome parasite.
Examination of stool and/or urine for ova is the primary method of diagnosis for suspected schistosome infections.
Review travel and residency history to assist with proper diagnosis.
Recommended tests Testing of stool or urine can be of limited sensitivity, particularly for travelers who may have lighter burden infections.
The eggs are shed intermittently and in low amounts in light-intensity infections.
Collect three samples on different days to increase the sensitivity of stool and urine examination.
Hematuria testing The presence of hematuria can suggest a S.
haematobium infection.
However, this test is more useful for population studies in Africa and is not sufficiently sensitive or specific for individual patient diagnosis.
Serological testing Serologic testing for antischistosomal antibody is recommended for diagnosis of travelers or immigrants from endemic areas who have not been treated appropriately for schistosomiasis in the past.
Commonly used serologic tests detect antibodies to the adult worm.
For new infections, the serum sample tested should be collected at least 6 – 8 weeks after likely infection, to allow for full development of the parasite and antibody to the adult stage.
Serologic testing may not be appropriate for determining active infection in patients who have been repeatedly infected and treated in the past.
This is because specific antibodies can persist despite cure.
In these patients, serologic testing cannot distinguish resolved infection from active infection.
Antigen testing An antigen test has been developed that can detect active infection based on the presence of schistosomal antigen.
However, this test is not commercially available in the United States and is currently undergoing field evaluations for accurate diagnosis of low-intensity infections.
Diagnosis Stool and urine Examination of stool and/or urine for ova is the primary method of diagnosis for suspected schistosome infections.
The choice of sample to diagnose schistosomiasis depends on the species of parasite likely causing the infection.
Adult stages of S.
mansoni, S.
japonicum, S.
mekongi, and S.
intercalatum live in the mesenteric venous plexus of infected hosts and eggs are shed in feces.
haematobium adult worms are found in the venous plexus of the lower urinary tract and eggs are shed in urine.
Travel and residency Careful review of travel and residence history is critical for determining whether infection is likely and which species may be causing infection.
It is important to remember that both S.
mansoni and S.
haematobium are endemic in some areas of sub-Saharan Africa.
Patients with freshwater exposures in those areas should have both stool and urine samples examined for eggs.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Schistosomiasis Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms found in contaminated fresh water.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Schistosomiasis EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Prevention Fast Facts Schistosomiasis Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care and Treatment VIEW ALL View All MARCH 11, 2024 Clinical Overview of Schistosomiasis KEY POINTS Schistosomiasis incubates for 14 – 84 days for people with acute infection.
Chronic schistosomiasis results from the hosts' immune response to the schistosome eggs.
There are multiple ways to test for schistosomiasis.
Praziquantel can treat infections from all major Schistosoma species.
Incubation The incubation period for patients with acute schistosomiasis is usually 14 – 84 days.
However, many people are asymptomatic and have subclinical disease during both acute and chronic stages of infection.
People with acute infection (also known as Katayama syndrome) may present with: Rash Fever Headache Myalgia Respiratory symptoms Often eosinophilia is present with hepato- and/or splenomegaly.
Clinical features Clinical manifestations of chronic disease result from host immune responses to schistosome eggs.
Abdominal symptoms S.
mansoni and S.
japonicum eggs most commonly lodge in the blood vessels of the liver or intestine and can cause: Diarrhea Constipation Blood in the stool Chronic inflammation can lead to: Bowel wall ulceration Hyperplasia Polyposis Heavy infections can lead to liver fibrosis and portal hypertension.
haematobium eggs tend to lodge in the urinary tract causing damage that can lead to dysuria and hematuria.
Chronic infections may increase the risk of bladder cancer, bladder fibrosis, and kidney damage.
These eggs have also been associated with damage to the female genital tract.
This damage can cause female genital schistosomiasis, which can affect the cervix, Fallopian tubes, and vagina.
Female genital schistosomiasis can also lead to increased susceptibility to other infections.
DPDx Resources:‎ DPDx: Schistosomiasis Specimen collection: Stool Specimen collection: Urine Central nervous system symptoms Central nervous system lesions have been reported but are rare.
Disease is the result of ectopic deposition of eggs in the spinal cord (S.
mansoni or S.
haematobium) or brain (S.
japonicum) and inflammatory reactions, typically the formation of granulomas that act as space occupying lesions.
Testing and diagnosis Examination of stool and/or urine for ova is the primary method of diagnosis for suspected schistosome infections.
Because symptom presentation can vary due to species, it is important to gather a full travel or former residence history.
Testing recommendations can also vary depending on light versus heavy infections and recent travel status versus former residents of schistosomiasis-endemic country or region.
KEEP READING: Clinical Testing and Diagnosis for Schistosomiasis Treatment and recovery Praziquantel is effective at treating infections with all major Schistosoma species.
The timing of treatment is important since praziquantel is most effective against the adult worm and requires the presence of a mature antibody response to the parasite.
The immune response in lightly infected patients may be less robust from the response in heavily infected patients.
Lightly infected patients may need repeat treatments.
Limited evidence of parasite resistance to praziquantel has been reported based on low cure rates in recently exposed or heavily infected populations.
See full treatment guidelines.
ON THIS PAGE Incubation Clinical features Testing and diagnosis Treatment and recovery SOURCES PRINT SHARE Schistosomiasis Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms found in contaminated fresh water.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All FEBRUARY 26, 2024 From the Director Letters to Partners and Colleagues This page lists letters to partners and colleagues from the Director of the Division of Sexually Transmitted Diseases Prevention.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
STI Funding EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About STI Funding Spotlights by jurisdiction Success Stories Success Bulletins Promising Practices VIEW ALL Related Topics: Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) View All FEBRUARY 20, 2024 About STI Funding KEY POINTS CDC's STI prevention efforts continue to help people live healthier lives.
Programs are having success across many jurisdictions.
Impact Jurisdictional Spotlights State and territory reports that spotlight STI program challenges, opportunities, and investments, including relevant policies Success Stories STI prevention success stories made possible by programs, as well as by CDC and other federal agencies Success Bulletins Updates from programs in jurisdictions across the country SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI Funding Funding opportunities and success stories for STI prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All JANUARY 25, 2024 STI Prevention Priorities AT A GLANCE CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP) provides national leadership, research, policy development, and scientific information to help people live safer, healthier lives by the prevention of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and their complications.
About the STD 2022 - 2026 strategic plan Vision A society where people and communities are empowered to achieve sexual health and protect themselves and others from sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Mission To maximize the impact of STI prevention through science, programs, and policy.
Priority populations Adolescents and young adults Men who have sex with men (MSM) Pregnant women Goals and objectives GOAL 1.
Prevent new STIs 1.1.
Raise the visibility of sexual health, STIs, evidence-based screening guidelines, and support actionable conversations 1.2 Reduce syphilis among women of reproductive age to prevent cases of congenital syphilis 1.3 Reduce antimicrobial-resistant gonococcal (AR GC) infections domestically and internationally GOAL 2.
Improve the health of people by reducing poor health caused by STIs 2.1 Increase STI screening, treatment, management, and holistic care among all people, particularly priority populations 2.2 Expand workforce knowledge and experience, and healthcare systems capacity to implement quality STI prevention, screening, diagnosis, surveillance, and treatment 2.3 Support training, and expanded staff capacity, including DIS in programs and settings that serve communities and populations disproportionately impacted by STIs 2.4 Optimize, expand use of, and improve the effectiveness of expedited partner therapy, STI partner services, and linkage to care 2.5 Monitor and advance the understanding of burden and trends of STIs and their sequelae GOAL 3.
Accelerate progress in STI research, prevention, and technology 3.1 Use translational, implementation, and communication science research to identify, evaluate, scale up, and promote best practices in STI prevention and treatment in diverse settings 3.2 Support the development and uptake of innovative STI diagnostics, prevention technologies, therapeutic agents, and other interventions for the prevention, identification, and treatment of STIs, including new and emerging disease threats 3.3 Support the development, assessment (or evaluation), and dissemination of innovative STI service delivery models in settings such as clinics, emergency departments, pharmacies, urgent care, correctional facilities, schools and school-based health centers, mental health programs, substance use disorder programs, retail clinics, and field and community settings 3.4 Promote and strengthen the use of innovative technologies and develop new mechanisms for accessing, analyzing, and disseminating data 3.5 Support research to better understand foundational STI biology and STI transmission dynamics GOAL 4.
Reduce STI-related health disparities and health inequities 4.1 Expand access to trauma-informed, stigma- and discrimination-free, culturally competent and linguistically appropriate STI prevention, care, and treatment services in communities disproportionately impacted by STIs 4.2 Support, monitor, evaluate, and disseminate programs and policies that reduce barriers to improve the delivery and receipt of services for communities and populations disproportionately impacted by STIs 4.3 Support development, assessment (or evaluation) and dissemination of interventions that address social and structural determinants of health (e.g., housing, transportation, food, racism, discrimination, education, job opportunities, etc.) and co-occurring conditions that impede access to STI services and exacerbate disparities GOAL 5.
Achieve integrated and coordinated efforts to address the STI epidemic 5.1 Maximize use of surveillance data 5.2 Expand accountability for STI prevention and control 5.3 Coordinate and align efforts to address the syndemic of HIV, STIs, viral hepatitis, and substance use disorders 5.4 Support health departments with technical assistance to address the STI epidemic GOAL 6.
Enhance and support an effective internal workforce 6.1 Work within DSTDP to increase professional development opportunities and retention 6.2 Work to improve morale, inclusiveness, and diversity of staff Indicators of progress DSTDP will track performance of its strategic plan's goals using a series of existing data-driven national-level indicators from the following initiatives: STI National Strategic Plan Progress Indicators Healthy People STI Objectives and Measures Congressional STI Performance Measures (found in CDC's Congressional Justifications) These indicators aim to measure progress in: Increasing the proportion of sexually active female adolescents and young women who get screened for chlamydia.
Reducing gonorrhea rates.
Reducing syphilis rates.
Reducing congenital syphilis.
Increasing proportion of congenital syphilis cases averted.
Reducing the proportion of adolescents and young adults with genital herpes.
Reducing pelvic inflammatory disease in female adolescents and young women.
Reducing disparities.
DSTDP reports annually to Congress and to the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Infectious Disease and HIV/AIDS Policy (HHS/OIDP) on these sets of STI-related indicators.
Both the STI Plan and congressional indicators have annual targets to help track trends in performance and examine where course corrections are needed.
Healthy People 2030 forecasts 10-year targets for its objectives out to year 2030.
Data are provided for core objectives at least three time periods throughout the decade.
All indicators use the following existing data sources, which are based on national data: The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Nationwide Emergency Department Sample (HCUP NEDS).
The Health Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS).
The National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS).
Marketscan, Thomson Reuters (Healthcare) Inc.
STD Surveillance Network (SSuN).
These data sources generate regular and consistent data and allow for stratification by priority populations and regions to further assess disparities.
ON THIS PAGE About the STD 2022 - 2026 strategic plan Goals and objectives Indicators of progress SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
NCHHSTP Newsroom SEARCH TV and Multimedia VIEW ALL News Releases CDC’s latest news releases on HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, and tuberculosis.
Learn More NCHHSTP Newsroom News releases and resources on HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis topics.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, & Tuberculosis EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Health Equity Health Disparities Dr.
William 'Bill' Jenkins Health Equity Lecture VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention | HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) View All FEBRUARY 29, 2024 Per a court order, HHS is required to restore this website as of 11:59PM ET, February 14, 2025.
Any information on this page promoting gender ideology is extremely inaccurate and disconnected from the immutable biological reality that there are two sexes, male and female.
The Trump Administration rejects gender ideology and condemns the harms it causes to children, by promoting their chemical and surgical mutilation, and to women, by depriving them of their dignity, safety, well-being, and opportunities.
This page does not reflect biological reality and therefore the Administration and this Department rejects it.
Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis KEY POINTS A health disparity is the occurrence of diseases at greater levels among certain population groups more than among others.
Differences in health disparities may occur by gender, race or ethnicity, education, income, disability, geographic location and sexual orientation.
Social determinants of health like poverty, unequal access to health care, lack of education, stigma, and racism are linked to health disparities.
Who's affected Health Disparities in Black or African American People Health Disparities in American Indian or Alaska Native People Health Disparities in Asian People Health Disparities in Hispanic or Latino People Health Disparities in Native Hawaiians and Other Pacific Islanders What CDC is doing to reduce health disparities CDC is developing future priorities and identifying best practices for addressing societal factors that increase risk for HIV, viral hepatitis, STDs and tuberculosis.
The goal of these efforts is to help reduce health disparities and promote health equity.
For more information, visit NCHHSTP's Social Determinants of Health website.
Resources Minority health links Office of Minority Health and Human Disparities (CDC) Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH) (National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC) Office of Minority Health (Department of Health and Human Services) National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIH) Minority Health (AHRQ) Women’s health links Office of Women's Health (CDC) WISEWOMAN (National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC) The Office on Women's Health (Department of Health and Human Services) Women's Health (HRSA) Resources for Women's Health (AHRQ) Health disparities Healthy People 2030 (Department of Health and Human Services) NCHHSTP Social Determinants of Health CDC Social Determinants of Health Populations at risk Indian Health Service (Department of Health and Human Services) Correctional Health Persons Who Inject Drugs U.S.
Public Health Service Syphilis Study at Tuskegee ON THIS PAGE Who's affected What CDC is doing to reduce health disparities Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCHHSTP Health Equity Health equity in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis prevention requires addressing inequalities, injustices, and elimination of health disparities.
View All Health Equity Health Disparities Dr.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services SEARCH About The Toolkit for Technology-Based Partner Services Glossary VIEW ALL About The Toolkit for Technology-Based Partner Services Start here!
The toolkit serves as a general resource for health departments, community-based organiz Sign Up Quarterly peer-to-peer support, discussion and info sharing.
Additional Resources App Simulator Building Healthy Online Communities NCSD Connect Contact Tracing Tools, Information, and Resources - Johns Hopkins Technical Assistance: To request technical assistance, send an email to Rachel Kachur Sections About The Toolkit for Technology-Based Partner Services Cultural Understanding and Awareness Components Data Management and Evaluation Data Security and Confidentiality IPS Staffing and Supervision Summary Tables References About The Toolkit for Technology-Based Partner Services Glossary and Appendices Glossary These are the common acronyms used in the Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services.
Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D Appendix E Appendix F Appendix G Appendix H Appendix I Appendix J Appendix K Appendix L Appendix M Appendix N The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services A general resource for health departments, community-based organizations, and others on how to use technologies to trace and contact persons potentially exposed to STDs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
STI Funding EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About STI Funding Spotlights by jurisdiction Success Stories Success Bulletins Promising Practices VIEW ALL Related Topics: Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) View All SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS Public Health APRIL 22, 2024 Promising Practices from Sexual Health Clinics As part of the Ending the Ending the HIV Epidemic in the U.S.
(EHE) Initiative PURPOSE Sexual health clinics (i.e., STI clinics) play a vital role in the EHE Initiative.
These promising practices highlight ways that clinics are strengthening their infrastructure and improving service delivery to address HIV and other STIs among the communities they serve.
Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services/St.
Louis County May 2024 The Institute for Public Health at Washington University in St.
Louis and the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services have joined forces to address rising sexually transmitted infection (STI) rates throughout the St.
Louis region by developing a powerful new data analysis tool that enhances the information that physicians and other health care providers access.
The tool, a sexual health data platform in use since late 2021, collects and aggregates patient STI test results (positive and negative) from participating providers for HIV, syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and trichomonas—moving beyond the standard reporting of positive-only results to paint a more complete picture of sexual health in the region.
Key data elements in the platform include data such as individual demographics, clinical test type/results, and prescribed/administered treatment.
It was created to drive regional collaborations focused on population level interventions, and some projects are showing progress: congenital syphilis (CS) review boards recently used the robust data to comprehensively assess factors contributing to CS in the region, and a women's health clinic co-located with a very busy emergency department used patient visit data to build a case for expanded walk-in care.
Future plans include platform expansion to address emerging public health issues.
Washington, D.C.
May 2024 The Washington, DC Health and Wellness Center (DCHWC), has joined forces with the DC Forensic Nurse Examiners (DCFNE) to coordinate an expedited, comprehensive process for patients who have experienced sexual assault or intimate partner violence to receive safe, private sexually transmitted infection (STI) and HIV prevention services.
DCFNE—which supports survivors of sexual assault, intimate partner violence, and family violence with free medical care by specially trained nurses—has established direct linkage to care at DCHWC, a clinic that provides HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (nPEP), and other STI screening and treatment services for free or low cost.
The collaboration offers patients a number of services: the convenience of direct access to nPEP medications either after they leave the emergency room or as an alternative to visiting the ER; comprehensive STI screening, treatment, and follow-up; access to the rapid response hotlines of both organizations (available 24 hours/7 days a week); and the ease of proximity for a streamlined care experience—the clinics are located just a few blocks away from each other.
Maryland Department of Public Health / Prince George’s County Health Department November 2023 The Prince George's County Health Department (PGCHD) in Maryland recently restructured their HIV PrEP program leading to a twofold increase in their ability to engage with diverse populations.
A key contributor to the increased engagement was the launch of a new team dedicated to providing PrEP services.
The team is comprised of one PrEP manager and two PrEP counselors who provide PrEP education, assessments, follow up and referrals, and work closely with an onsite HIV/STI physician.
Through collaboration with Disease Intervention Specialists and health department staff conducting outreach activities, the team has seen a notable increase in young LGBTQ+ people accessing PrEP services.
Most recently, PGCHD implemented a broader-reaching social media campaign for all county residents, including women and heterosexual men who may not be represented in other PrEP advertising.
PGCHD plans to continue expanding PrEP services by adding a nurse and community health workers to their team, and by strengthening partnerships with the county's domestic violence program, CBOs working with priority populations, and community providers.
Louisiana Department of Health / Open Health Care Clinic (East Baton Rouge Parish) November 2023 Open Health Care Clinic is increasing its use of technology through the implementation of digital check-in and self-scheduling solutions.
This strategic move is geared towards optimizing patient interactions, curbing wait times, and boosting the clinic's efficiency.
A notable advantage of the new system is that patients can conveniently check in up to a week prior to appointments and proactively update their records, expediting the overall process.
The digital check-in system also bolsters patient privacy by minimizing the need for personal information exchanges with front desk staff.
To address diverse patient preferences, the clinic also offers conventional check-in alternatives.
Open Health Care Clinic's dedication to elevating the patient experience is fostering a more streamlined, person-centered healthcare system.
Jefferson County Department of Health / Alabama Department of Public Health August 2023 The Jefferson County Department of Health in Birmingham, Alabama, has increased clinic capacity at all three of its sexual health clinics by implementing an express STI service model, known as Fast Track .
The clinic uses a set of pre-appointment questions to triage patients requesting services.
Once triaged, patients without symptoms can easily schedule a Fast Track visit for HIV/STI testing.
During the visit, a Disease Intervention Specialist provides specimen collection instructions, patient education, risk-reduction counseling, and referral for HIV PrEP, if needed.
Fast Track allows patients to receive timely notification of their test results, and visits have steadily increased since the program's introduction in late-2019.
From 2020 to 2022, the Fast Track Program increased its patient volume from 888 to 1863 visits, with plans to further expand Fast Track services through the implementation of online self-scheduling.
As of July 2023, clinics have completed 1252 visits since the start of the year.
With Fast Track in place, providers can dedicate more of their appointment time to patients with symptoms suggestive of an STI, and patients with or without symptoms can more easily receive the timely STI and HIV testing services they need.
Fulton County Board of Health / Georgia Department of Public Health August 2023 The Neighborhood Union Health Center of Fulton County Board of Health in Atlanta, Georgia, has launched express clinic services for oral HIV PrEP.
To remain on PrEP, CDC guidance recommends that clients follow up with their providers every three months and complete lab tests before the client's next PrEP refill.
Depending on the timing of the follow-up visit, repeat lab tests may include HIV, bacterial STIs (syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia), triglyceride and cholesterol levels, and tests to assess kidney function.
Prior to launching the program, all appointments were in-person and at least an hour long, limiting the number of clients that could be seen each day for PrEP appointments or other sexual health services.
With the Neighborhood Union Express Clinic in place, clients only need to meet with a provider once per year, and this can be in-person or via telehealth.
Since the program's launch, a typical PrEP follow-up visit for repeat testing only takes 10-15 minutes.
Once results are received, the client is seen by a provider if there are any concerns.
Providing express services for oral HIV PrEP has increased Neighborhood Union's capacity to offer convenient, client-centered PrEP care.
Orange County Department of Health / California Department of Public Health August 2023 The Orange County Department of Health in Orange County, California, launched a rapid antiretroviral therapy (rART) program at the local 17th Street Testing, Treatment and Care Clinic .
Since the program's launch in 2020, the clinic has linked over 247 clients newly diagnosed with HIV to rART and reengaged 65 clients into HIV medical care.
For clients previously lost to follow-up, the program has designed workflows that incorporate community partnerships, HIV-related data and reporting, and review of patient medical records to improve reengagement outcomes.
The clinic also utilizes public health investigators and case managers to reengage clients into care.
They are trained to be socially, culturally, and linguistically competent with an understanding of the social determinants of health that affect a client's ability to take their HIV treatment regimen as prescribed.
The program is able to link clients to longer-term HIV medical care and support services based on each client's needs and service eligibility (e.g., insurance status, income level, existing provider relationships, etc.).
Since the launch of the program, 76 percent of clients the clinic has reengaged into HIV care have achieved viral suppression.
County of San Diego Health and Human Services Agency / California Department of Public Health August 2023 In August 2023, the HIV, STD, and Hepatitis Branch of Public Health Services in the County of San Diego Health and Human Services Agency implemented a doxycycline as sexually transmitted infection (STI) post-exposure prophylaxis (doxy as STI PEP) program in their regional clinics.
Having a bacterial STI, like primary or secondary syphilis, can increase someone's risk of getting or transmitting HIV.
For that reason, doxy as STI PEP is part of a syndemic approach to reduce new HIV infections and STI/HIV-related illness in the region among populations disproportionately affected by STIs and HIV.
Eligible clients who are interested in doxy as STI PEP receive a 14-tablet (7-dose) starter pack and are a written prescription for additional medication.
The doxy as STI PEP program has generated considerable interest among eligible clients.
In the first 17 days of program implementation, 23 clients started doxy as STI PEP.
Marion County / Indiana State Department of Health May 2023 The Bell Flower Clinic of the Marion County Public Health Department in Indianapolis, Indiana, has successfully increased patient engagement thanks to a recent communication campaign focused on PrEP awareness in gay and bisexual men.
Since the campaign launched in early November 2022, referrals, visits, and PrEP prescriptions at the clinic have more than doubled.
The secret to the campaign's success was including eye-catching, sex-positive messages on popular dating apps, posters, and bus wraps displayed around the city.
Another key component of the campaign was gathering community member feedback to ensure that the messaging resonated with and reached the intended audiences.
In the future, the Bell Flower Clinic plans to build upon the momentum of the campaign by expanding its work with lessons learned from its recent success.
Learn More Learn about funded projects that invest in sexual health clinics as part of the Ending the HIV Epidemic Initiative Scaling Up HIV Prevention Services in Sexual Health Clinics (as part of EHE) ON THIS PAGE Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services/St.
Louis County Washington, D.C.
Maryland Department of Public Health / Prince George’s County Health Department Louisiana Department of Health / Open Health Care Clinic (East Baton Rouge Parish) Jefferson County Department of Health / Alabama Department of Public Health Fulton County Board of Health / Georgia Department of Public Health Orange County Department of Health / California Department of Public Health County of San Diego Health and Human Services Agency / California Department of Public Health Marion County / Indiana State Department of Health RELATED PAGES About STI Funding Spotlights by jurisdiction Success Stories Success Bulletins VIEW ALL STI Funding About STI Funding SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI Funding Funding opportunities and success stories for STI prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All NOVEMBER 21, 2024 Tuberculosis Elimination Priorities AT A GLANCE Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) supports a dual approach to find and treat active tuberculosis (TB) disease and test for and treat latent TB infection to prevent progression to disease.
Goals Our primary goal is to reduce TB illness and disease in the United States with a particular focus on reducing disparities in TB morbidity among disproportionately affected groups, including non–U.S.-born persons, racial and ethnic minority groups and persons in congregate settings (e.g., homeless shelters, correctional facilities).
Goals for health equity The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has launched an agency-wide strategy to integrate health equity into all agency public health work with the goal of reducing health disparities.
In an effort to incorporate this strategy, we developed three goals that focus on populations who experience health disparities related to TB disease.
The overall goal is to reduce TB incidence in these populations by approximately 20% between 2019 and 2025.
Achieving these goals will reduce health inequities overall and bring the U.S.
In 2020, a 20% decline in TB incidence was achieved for non-U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino persons and non-Hispanic Black or African American persons; however, the magnitude of health disparities remains similar relative to non-Hispanic White persons.
Health equity goal 1 Decrease the TB incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Asian persons from 26.2 per 100,000 (2019) to 20.8 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Asian Americans closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born Asian populations (1.5 per 100,000 in 2019).
Health equity goal 2 Decrease the TB incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Hispanic/Latino persons from 10.2 per 100,000 (2019) to 8.2 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Hispanic and Latino persons closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born Hispanic/Latinos populations (1.5 per 100,000 in 2019).
Health equity goal 3 Decrease the TB incidence rate among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Black or African American persons from 2.6 per 100,000 (2019) to 2.0 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Black or African American persons closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born white persons (0.4 per 100,000 in 2019).
Guiding principles We prioritize the use of high-impact interventions, programs, and policies that are cost-effective and scalable, cross-sector collaboration that amplifies reach and engages communities across overlapping populations, and equity principles in the design, implementation, and evaluation of research, data analysis, surveillance, and intervention strategies.
These principles will ensure the greatest impact on the three goals: Reducing incidence of infections, Lowering morbidity and mortality, and Reducing health disparities and promoting health equity We will implement programs, policies, and research that: Are most cost-effective in reducing overall TB incidence, morbidity, mortality, and related health disparities, Can be feasibly implemented at full scale with currently available resources (programs and policies should be practical to implement at the scale needed to meet the need in populations at risk for TB), Will have the greatest impact on reducing TB incidence, morbidity, mortality, and disparities and promoting health equity when implemented, and Include populations that are disproportionately affected to reduce disparities by ensuring that those with the highest rates of morbidity or who are most underserved are effectively reached.
Strategies DTBE’s strategies focus on efforts unique to TB control and are aimed at eliminating TB.
The six specific strategies that provide the framework for DTBE's strategic plan are derived from the U.S.
government's response to the Institute of Medicine Report, Ending Neglect: The Elimination of Tuberculosis in the United States (2000), which were reaffirmed in A Call for Action on the Tuberculosis Elimination Plan published by STOP TB USA in 2010.
Maintain control of TB Maintain the decline in TB incidence through timely diagnosis of TB disease, appropriate treatment and management of persons with TB disease (both drug-susceptible and drug-resistant), investigation and appropriate evaluation and treatment of contacts of people with infectious TB disease, and prevention of further transmission through infection control.
Accelerate the decline Advance toward TB elimination through appropriate regionalization of TB control activities, rapid recognition of TB transmission using genotyping methods, rapid outbreak response and targeted testing and treatment of persons with latent TB infection by engaging communities that experience high burden of TB disease and expanding partnerships with health care agencies, clinicians, and community organizations.
Develop new tools Develop and assess new tools for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB.
Contribute to international TB control as a global leader in research and program efforts Disseminate advances made in domestic TB control (e.g., programmatic/laboratory improvements, applied laboratory research, TB Trials Consortium research, TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortium research) with CDC’s Division of Global HIV and Tuberculosis (DGHT) and other partners; collaborate with CDC’s Division of Global Migration and Health (DGMH), the division responsible for reducing the risk of disease importation through medical screening guidelines for all physicians performing the mandatory overseas and U.S.
based examinations of refugees and immigrants; reductions in global TB are critical to the goal of U.S.
TB elimination as 71.5% of U.S.
TB cases in 2020 occurred in non-U.S.-born persons.
Mobilize and sustain support Mobilize and sustain support for TB elimination by engaging and communicating with policy and opinion leaders, health care providers, affected communities, TB survivors, and the public.
Track progress Monitor progress toward the goal of TB elimination, and regularly report on progress to all partners, policymakers, and priority populations.
Activities Specifically, to fulfill our mission and implement our strategies for TB elimination, DTBE carries out the following activities through the indicated examples: Activities Supports DTBE strategies Examples Conducts routine surveillance (including drug susceptibility), outbreak and molecular cluster detection and investigation, and specialized periodic surveys.
I, II, VI National Tuberculosis Surveillance System (NTSS) National Tuberculosis Molecular Surveillance Center (NTMSC) TB Genotyping Information Management System (TB GIMS) Tuberculosis Latent Infection Surveillance System (TBLISS) Aggregate Reports on Program Evaluation (ARPE) Large Outbreaks of Tuberculosis in the United States (LOTUS) Surveillance Provides funding and embedded staff to state and local TB programs to support case finding and reporting, completion of treatment, contact investigation, and targeted testing and treatment of latent TB infection.
I, II, VI Tuberculosis Elimination and Laboratory Cooperative Agreement DTBE public health advisors and medical officers assigned to state and local TB programs Special initiatives to address latent TB infection testing and treatment in populations at increased risk of TB Supports expert medical care through funding expert medical consultation.
I, II TB Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation Guides preparedness and provides programmatic consultation, technical assistance, and outbreak response assistance to state and local health departments.
I, II DTBE Outbreak Response Plan Outbreak Evaluation Unit DTBE medical officers TB Epi-Aids and onsite and remote technical assistance from DTBE epidemiologists Program consultants and other subject matter experts Conducts program evaluation to improve programs.
VI National TB Indicators Project (NTIP) Program evaluation component of Tuberculosis Elimination and Laboratory Cooperative Agreement Tuberculosis Program Evaluation Network (TB-PEN) Provides laboratory diagnostic services; builds and maintains laboratory capacity.
I, II, III National TB Reference Laboratory Laboratory capacity building through Tuberculosis Elimination and Laboratory Cooperative Agreement Cooperative Agreement support to Association of Public Health Laboratories National TB Laboratory Center of Excellence National TB Molecular Surveillance Center Molecular Detection of Drug Resistance Service Conducts critical, programmatically relevant behavioral, epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and operational research to develop and evaluate new tools and interventions for diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and control of TB (to help programs work more effectively and more efficiently).
III Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC) Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC) Whole genome sequencing for outbreak detection, improving molecular detection of drug resistance and better understanding of TB immunology Provides data management; statistical, economic, and epidemiologic modeling; and information technology support.
I, II, III, IV, VI Data management and statistical support for NTSS, NTMSC, TBTC, TBESC Economic and epidemiologic modeling activities, including those through NCHHSTP Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling cooperative agreement (NEEMA) Supports intramural infrastructure (salaries, travel, equipment, and supplies) required for maintaining subject matter experts in TB.
I, II, III, VI Program consultants and other public health advisors, medical officers, epidemiologists, scientists, statisticians, laboratorians, administrative staff, and infrastructure needed to support their work Obtains external expert consultation and advice to ensure that research and program activities are responsive to emergent public health concerns.
I, II, V, VI Advisory Council for the Elimination of TB (ACET) Office of Infectious Diseases Board of Scientific Counselors Ad-hoc consultations Develops and evaluates evidence-based training and educational materials, policies, and guidelines to ensure competency in TB diagnosis, treatment, laboratory capacity, surveillance and reporting, and programmatic prevention and control.
I, II, III, IV, V, VI TB Core Curriculum TB Self-Study Modules TB Program Managers' Course TB Laboratory Course NTSS training TB GIMS training TB Diagnosis and Treatment Guidelines TB Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation Develops education, risk, and media communications (web- and print-based) to aid in preparedness and public awareness of TB prevention and control issues.
I, II, III, V Online TB fact sheets Internet and intranet sites Media releases and responses Talking points Social media Think.
Treat TB Campaign Cultivates relevant external partnerships, as well as collaborates within CDC and across other federal agencies.
Develop messaging and other communication strategies for improving treatment initiation (and completion) for those infected who are at highest risk of progressing to TB disease Support major initiative for expanded targeted latent TB infection testing and treatment with the following components: Expand use of surveillance system for latent TB infection (e.g., TB Latent Infection Surveillance System) Promote testing to priority populations in primary care settings and congregate settings End low yield testing of persons at low risk of TB Scale up use of interferon-gamma release assays, especially for non–U.S.-born persons Scale up use of short-course latent TB infection treatment (e.g., 12-dose treatment for latent TB infection) Develop outreach and communication tools to engage affected communities and their medical providers (e.g., Think.
Treat TB campaign) Conduct research on optimal implementation strategies for latent TB testing and treatment expansion (e.g., TBESC III) and LTBI treatment regimen shortening (TBTC) Maintain or increase focus on prevention of TB disease in the United States for non-U.S.-born persons Take advantage of new diagnostics (e.g., interferon-gamma release assay) and treatment/drug regimens Consider expanding TB Technical Instructions for overseas TB screening for immigration to include additional visa categories (e.g., students, temporary workers) Assess TB and latent TB infection testing and treatment patterns for non-U.S.-born persons who are applying for naturalization of citizenship by working with U.S.
civil surgeons Maximize impact of limited resources Promote and harness scientific and technological advancement Share federal policies and programs that could augment TB programs' efforts; for example, some programs already use 340B program for discounted drug purchases, some use Medicaid Section 1115 waivers, some have adopted TB Medicaid Option, and others are making advances under the Affordable Care Act Challenges As U.S.
TB cases continue to decrease, the perception of TB as a public health risk diminishes as well.
As a result, TB can seem to be of lower priority to the general public, clinicians, and many policymakers.
Competition for public funds puts resources for TB control and research at risk.
The greatest challenges include the following.
Fewer patients with TB limits routine training opportunities in TB clinical, laboratory, research, and program efforts leading to loss of expertise and experience in TB.
This loss of TB expertise and experience has resulted in decreased capacity to appropriately diagnose, treat, manage, and prevent TB.
Persons at high risk for TB may receive care from private health care providers and community health centers that do not have a great deal of experience with TB.
These health care settings may be an entry point for health care for many individuals at high risk for TB.
Health care providers can play a critical role in TB elimination by routinely testing populations at high risk for tuberculosis, but may not consider TB testing a priority.
TB drugs face the same problems that threaten the supply of antibiotics in general.
As demand decreases and drug patents expire, manufacturers may weigh the balance of refurbishing facilities and procuring active ingredients against the profitability of the product.
Research and development of new TB antibiotics has not kept pace with those of other types of medicine.
Therefore, periodic shortages and supply interruptions of critical TB medications have occurred in the United States over the past ten years, resulting in interruptions in patient treatment, delays in treatment initiation, and potential increased community exposure to TB.
While numbers of TB cases decline, outbreaks are increasingly concentrated among people who are medically underserved, including persons born outside the United States, racial and ethnic minority groups, and people experiencing homelessness, incarceration, and substance/alcohol use.
Also, TB is associated with other acute and chronic health conditions, including inadequately controlled diabetes and HIV infection.
The complexities of these social determinants and comorbidities affect the resources required for successful prevention and control efforts.
Although the United States has not experienced the high percentages of drug-resistant TB cases reported globally, the threat of drug-resistant TB, including acquired resistance as a result of delayed diagnosis and inappropriate antibiotic treatment, continues to affect prevention and control efforts.
Opportunities The decline of TB incidence could be accelerated by prioritizing TB control efforts to address disparities in TB morbidity among people in the United States who are most at increased risk for TB disease and reactivation of latent TB.
To this end, DTBE will support: Robust TB programs to ensure persons with TB complete treatment; Rapid molecular testing for identification of cases of drug-resistant TB; Genotyping to rapidly identify outbreaks; Prevention efforts through expanded latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) testing (using interferon-gamma release assays) and treatment (with new shorter course regimens); The latest in clinical, programmatic and epidemiologic research.
To maximize outreach, activities will focus on the following populations: Non–U.S.-born persons: 71.5% of TB patients in 2020; Mexico, Philippines, India, Vietnam, and China are the leading countries of origin among non–U.S.-born persons diagnosed with TB in the United States.
Among non–U.S.-born persons diagnosed with TB, 48.7% have lived in the United States for ≥ 10 years.
Racial/ethnic minority groups: 89% of overall TB patients; 71.8% of cases among U.S.-born persons; case rates 7–32 times higher than White persons; Persons living with HIV: ~4.8% of TB patients; Persons with diabetes: ~22.5% of TB patients; Persons experiencing homelessness: ~4.3% of TB patients; Persons who are incarcerated: ~2.6% of TB patients; Persons who use drugs or alcohol: ~1–9% of TB patients Objectives and performance targets National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets for 2030 Objectives for Reducing Annual TB Incidence1,2,3,4 Targets TB Incidence Reduce the incidence of TB disease.
1.48 cases per 100,000 US-Born Persons Decrease the incidence of TB disease among US-born persons.
0.37 cases per 100,000 Non-US–Born Persons Decrease the incidence of TB disease among non-US–born persons.
11.33 cases per 100,000 US-Born Non-Hispanic Black or African American Persons Decrease the incidence of TB disease among US-born non-Hispanic Black or African American persons.
0.95 cases per 100,000 Children Younger than 5 Years of Age Decrease the incidence of TB disease among children younger than 5 years of age.
0.36 cases per 100,000 Objectives on Case Management and Treatment1,2,3 Targets Known HIV Status Increase the proportion of TB patients with a positive or negative HIV test result reported.
98% Treatment Initiation For TB patients with positive acid-fast bacillus (AFB) sputum-smear results, increase the proportion who initiated treatment within 7 days of specimen collection.
91% Recommended Initial Therapy For patients whose diagnosis is likely to be TB disease, increase the proportion who start on any recommended initial 4-drug regimen.
96% Sputum Culture Result Reported For TB patients aged 12 years or older with a pleural or respiratory site of disease, increase the proportion who have a sputum culture result reported.
98% Sputum Culture Conversion For TB patients with positive sputum culture results, increase the proportion with a documented conversion to negative results within 60 days of treatment initiation.
80% Completion of Treatment For patients with newly diagnosed TB disease for whom 12 months or less of treatment is indicated, increase the proportion who complete treatment within 12 months.
92% Objectives on Laboratory Reporting1,2,3 Targets Turnaround Time — Culture For TB patients with cultures of respiratory specimens identified with M.
tuberculosis complex (MTBC), increase the proportion reported by the laboratory within 25 days from the date the specimen was collected.
NOTE: 25 days includes 21 days for culture to grow and 4 days for specimen collection and delivery to lab.
69% Turnaround Time — Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAAT) For TB patients with respiratory specimens positive for MTBC by nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT), increase the proportion reported by the laboratory within 6 days from the date the specimen was collected.
NOTE: 6 days includes 2 days for detection and 4 days for specimen collection and delivery to lab.
95% Drug-Susceptibility Result5 For TB patients with positive culture results, increase the proportion who have initial drug-susceptibility results reported.
100% Universal Genotyping For TB patients with a positive culture result, increase the proportion who have a MTBC genotyping result reported.
100% Objectives on Contact Investigations1,3,6 Targets Contact Elicitation For TB patients with positive AFB sputum-smear results, increase the proportion who have contacts elicited.
100% Examination For contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB cases, increase the proportion who are examined for infection and disease.
90% Treatment Initiation For contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB cases diagnosed with latent TB infection, increase the proportion who start treatment.
92% Treatment Completion For contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB cases who have started treatment for latent TB infection, increase the proportion who complete treatment.
93% Objectives on Examination of Immigrants and Refugees1,3,7 Targets Examination Initiation For immigrants and refugees with abnormal chest radiographs (X-rays) read overseas as consistent with TB, increase the proportion who initiate a medical examination within 30 days of notification.
60% Examination Completion For immigrants and refugees with abnormal chest X-rays read overseas as consistent with TB, increase the proportion who complete a medical examination within 120 days of notification.
68% Treatment Initiation For immigrants and refugees with abnormal chest X-rays read overseas as consistent with TB who are diagnosed with latent TB infection or have radiographic findings consistent with prior pulmonary TB (ATS/CDC Class 4) on the basis of examination in the United States, for whom treatment was recommended, increase the proportion who start treatment.
80% Treatment Completion For immigrants and refugees with abnormal chest X-rays read overseas as consistent with TB who are diagnosed with latent TB infection or have radiographic findings consistent with prior pulmonary TB (ATS/CDC Class 4) on the basis of examination in the United States, and who have started on treatment, increase the proportion who complete treatment.
92% Objectives on Data Reporting Targets RVCT8 Ensure the completeness of each core Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT) data item reported to CDC.
100% ARPE9 Ensure the completeness of each core Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) data items reported to CDC.
100% EDN10 Ensure the completeness of each core TB Follow-Up Worksheet data item reported to CDC via the Electronic Disease Notification (EDN) system.
86% Objectives on Program Evaluation Targets Evaluation Activities Ensure submission of a program-specific performance-monitoring plan and an annual program evaluation plan to improve program performance.
100% Evaluation Focal Point Ensure designation of a TB evaluation focal point.
100% Objectives on Human Resource Development Targets Development Plan Ensure submission of a program-specific human resource development plan (HRD) and a yearly update of progress.
100% Training Focal Point Ensure designation of a TB training focal point.
100% Footnotes Indicator calculations for measuring progress are established by the National TB Indicators Project (NTIP).
Targets for incidence rates and objectives on case management and laboratory reporting are established based on performance reported in NTIP using 2015 – 2023 data from the National TB surveillance system.
For Sputum Culture Conversion and Completion of Treatment, the latest year with data available is 2021.
Targets are based on a statistical model that uses data to find trends from 2015 through 2023 (or the latest year with data available).
TB programs with fewer than 150 cases in total from 2021–2023 were excluded.
For each objective, we used a quantile regression model to estimate the 80th percentile for each year and extrapolated the fitted model to predict the estimated 80th percentile in the year 2030, which served as the target for 2030.
The "80th percentile" values reflect the projected performance of the top 20% of TB programs in the United States in 2030.
The quantile regression serves to establish a smooth trend over time, which is useful since the actual percentiles in any given year (e.g.
the final year of available data) may not be representative of the overall trend.
Population data are derived from the American Community Survey.
Jurisdictions with a non-US–born population or US-born non-Hispanic Black or African American population less than an average of 100,000 persons per year in 2021–2023 are also excluded in the statistical model for TB incidence rates for non-US–born persons and US-born non-Hispanic Blacks or African Americans persons.
Drug-susceptibility results from molecular tests will be counted as having met the objective in the indicator calculation starting in 2020.
Targets for objectives on contact investigation are established based on performance reported in NTIP using 2010–2016 data from the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) for contacts.
Targets for objectives on the examination of immigrants and refugees are established based on performance reported in NTIP using 2015–2023 data from the Electronic Disease Notification (EDN) system.
For Treatment Initiation and Treatment Completion, the latest year with data available is 2022.
Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT) is the standard surveillance data collection form for reporting tuberculosis cases.
Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) is the standard form for reporting contact investigation activities.
Electronic Disease Notification (EDN) system is a web-based system used to notify health departments of the immigrants and refugees' entry into the United States.
The system also includes a module for the TB Follow-Up Worksheet, a data collection form for reporting the outcomes of TB follow-up examinations in the United States.
ON THIS PAGE About the TB 2022 - 2026 Strategic Plan Goals Guiding principles Strategies Activities Tactics Challenges Opportunities Objectives and performance targets SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People NCHHSTP Newsroom Search News Releases Print This page includes all of the materials released to the press from present through 2022.
In addition to providing all releases in reverse chronological order, these materials are also organized by topic area (i.e.
HIV, STD, TB, and viral hepatitis).
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Service Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH More from CDC Health Topics A-Z Outbreaks About CDC Health Topics A-Z View All SEPTEMBER 4, 2024 About The Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee PURPOSE The 40-year Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee ended in 1972 and resulted in drastic changes to standard research practices.
Read on to learn about the impact of the study on the lives of those involved.
Background The U.S.
Public Health Service (USPHS) Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee was a study conducted between 1932 and 1972.
The study was supposed to observe the natural history of untreated syphilis.
As part of the study, researchers did not collect informed consent from participants.
They also did not offer treatment, even after it was easily available.
The study ended in 1972 on the recommendation of an Ad Hoc Advisory Panel.
The panel was convened by the Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific Affairs, following publication of news articles about the study.
In 1997, President Clinton issued a formal Presidential Apology .
In his apology he announced an investment to establish what became The National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University .
Many records can be found in the National Archives .
View Larger Group of men in Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee.
After the study, sweeping changes to standard research practices were made.
Efforts to promote the highest ethical standards in research are ongoing today.
Subjects and participation Tuskegee community members were aware of the study but thought it was a special government health care program1.
According to the Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific Affairs' Ad Hoc Advisory Panel's published report , "...the Macon County Health Department and Tuskegee Institute were cognizant of the study." Resource The National Archives, Southeastern Region, maintains a list of Tuskegee patient medical files .
The National Archives maintains photos related to the study .
No women were included in the study.
The study was limited to Black men 25 years of age or older.
However, as a result of lack of treatment, some women contracted syphilis from men who participated in the study’s syphilitic group.
Featured stories Family members and public health officials share their memories and reflections of the United States Public Health Service Study of Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male at Tuskegee and Macon County, Alabama, 1932 -1972.
Low Resolution Video FAQ Were men purposefully infected for the study?
According to a journal article about the study, published in 1936, the 399 men in the syphilitic group were initially recruited because they already had late-latent syphilis.
The 201 men in the control group did not have the disease.
Why was the U.S.
Public Health Service’s Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee unethical?
There is no evidence that researchers obtained informed consent from participants.
Also, the participants were not offered available treatments, even after penicillin became widely available.
You can learn more about changes made to standard research practices after Tuskegee in Research Implications.
How much money did the study participants receive from the 1974 out of court settlement?
The $10-million settlement was divided into four categories: Living syphilitic group participants received $37,500.
Heirs of deceased syphilitic group participants received $15,000.
Living control group participants received $16,000.
Heirs of deceased control group participants received $5,0002.
50th anniversary event This event was held Wednesday, November 30, 2022.
Watch our recorded session and related videos below.
This event acknowledged the 50th anniversary of the end of the United States Public Health Service Study of Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male at Tuskegee and Macon County, Alabama, 1932 -1972.
The intention was to create a space for authentic, accurate storytelling.
It was also meant to encourage discussion regarding current and future opportunities for public health leaders to move from trust to trustworthiness.
The program examined what happened, how and why it happened, lessons learned, the noticeable effects still felt today, and CDC's on-going role in addressing health equity.
Participants included experts in the fields of public health, ethics, history, and journalism.
In addition to our speakers, we featured moderated panel discussions.
The program was a hybrid event, available both virtually and in-person.
Low Resolution Video eProgram United States Public Health Service Study of Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male at Tuskegee and Macon County, Alabama, 1932 -1972 Download now Featured speakers Xavier Becerra United States Secretary, Health and Human Services Rochelle Walensky, MD, MPH Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Debra Houry, MD, MPH Acting Principal Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Robin D.
Bailey Jr., MA Chief Operating Officer, CDC Termika Smith, Ed.D, MPA Associate Director for Policy, Communications, and Strategy, Division of Adolescent and School Health, CDC Moderators Susan K.
Laird, DNP, MSN Training and Health Education Lead, Division of Communication Science and Services, CDC Jo Valentine, MSW Associate Director, Office of Health Equity, Division of STD Prevention, CDC Paul Rashad Young, MD Commander, U.S.
Public Health Service and Regional Associate Director, The Americas and Kenya, Division of Global HIV & TB, Center for Global Health, CDC Discussants James A.
Curran, MD, MPH Dean Emeritus, Emory Rollins School of Public Health Daniel E.
Dawes, JD Executive Director, Satcher Health Leadership Institute at Morehouse School of Medicine Vanessa Northington Gamble, MD, PhD University Professor of Medical Humanities, Professor of Medicine, Health Policy, and American Studies at the George Washington University.
Fred Gray, Esq.
President, Tuskegee Human & Civil Rights Multicultural Center Lillie Tyson Head, MS, EdS President, Voices for Our Fathers Legacy Foundation Jean Heller Author, Journalist Robert Benjamin Johnson Former Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison James H.
Jones, PhD Author, Bad Blood Chris Koller President, Milbank Memorial Fund Paul Lombardo, PhD, JD Regents' Professor and Bobby Lee Cook Professor of Law, Georgia State University College of Law Mary Leinhos, PhD Acting Team Lead, Public Health Ethics and Strategy Unit, Office of Scientific Integrity, CDC Ted Pestorius, MPA Deputy Director of Management and Overseas Operations, Center for Global Health, CDC Susan Reverby, PhD Author; Marion Butler McLean Professor Emerita in the History of Ideas and Professor Emerita in Women's and Gender Studies, Wellesley College Diane Rowley, MD, MPH Professor Emerita, Maternal and Child Health Department, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill David Satcher, MD, PhD Founding Director and Senior Advisor, Satcher Health Leadership Institute; Former Director, CDC Dixie E.
Snider Jr., MD, MPH Former Chief Science Officer, Office of the Director, CDC Rueben C.
Warren, DDS, MPH, DrPH, MDiv Professor/Director of the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University, Tuskegee, AL Resources Voices for Our Fathers Legacy Foundation The National Archives – USPHS Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee Facts & Information about Syphilis The National Archives – USPHS Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee Tuskegee University National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care ON THIS PAGE Background Subjects and participation Featured stories FAQ 50th anniversary event Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Syphilis Study The Untreated Syphilis Study at Tuskegee was conducted between 1932 and 1972 to observe the natural history of untreated syphilis.
View All Sign up for Email Updates Contact Us About CDC Policies Languages Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About The Toolkit for Technology-Based Partner Services Glossary VIEW ALL Related Topics: Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) View All APRIL 18, 2025 Appendix N—Technical Assistance for Technology-based Partner Services WHAT TO KNOW Another important method of training includes peer-to-peer sharing.
The National Internet Partner Services (NIPS) Workgroup hosts quarterly calls open to DIS, managers, and others interested in hearing more.
These calls provide peer-to-peer support and information sharing on the use of technology for partner services through case studies, presentations, overviews of specific websites, and new social technology tools and discussions.
Technical assistance contacts Technical Assistance Provider Contact information CDC’s Division of STD Prevention, Using Technology to Advance STI/HIV Prevention (UTASP) Group: Members of the UTASP Group have extensive knowledge and experience working with health departments on developing, implementing, and evaluating IPS programs.
They can provide technical assistance and trainings.
They also facilitate quarterly conference call discussions with DIS staff across the nation about IPS-related topics.
Requests for technical assistance can be directed to Rachel Kachur (rlk4@cdc.gov).
We recommend you also cc: etools@cdc.gov.
For more information on the National Internet Partner Services (NIPS) quarterly conference calls, please email etools@cdc.gov.
To subscribe to the NIPS List-serv: Please send an email from the account you wish to use to List@cdc.gov.
The National Network of STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC) offers courses related to IPS.
 SOURCES PRINT SHARE The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services A general resource for health departments, community-based organizations, and others on how to use technologies to trace and contact persons potentially exposed to STDs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All SEPTEMBER 10, 2024 Scaling Up HIV Prevention Services in Sexual Health Clinics (as part of EHE) AT A GLANCE To support the Ending the HIV Epidemic in the U.S.
(EHE) Initiative, the Department of Health and Human Services has provided multiple funding opportunities to jurisdictions, including continued investments in sexual health clinics (i.e., STI clinics).
Scaling up HIV Prevention Services in Sexual Health Clinics Through the EHE Initiative , the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has set an ambitious goal of reducing all new HIV infections in the U.S.
by 90% by 2030.
To support this goal, HHS has provided multiple funding opportunities to jurisdictions, including continued investments in sexual health clinics.
In August 2024, CDC awarded funding to 15 recipients to scale up HIV prevention and care services in sexual health clinics.
This award was made through a new funding opportunity PS-24-0003: Support and Scale Up of HIV Prevention Services in Sexual Health Clinics (SHIPS) funded by the EHE initiative.
SHIPS builds on the progress made integrating HIV prevention services in sexually transmitted infections (STI) clinics under Component C of CDC's PS20-2010 program.
SHIPS is committed to advancing health equity and is supporting existing sexual health clinics that serve communities with high HIV and STI burden.
HIV/STI screening in sexual health clinics provides an opportunity to link patients to high-impact HIV prevention services and to facilitate linkage to, retention in, and re-engagement in HIV care among persons with HIV.
SHIPS Strategies SHIPS recipients are implementing two required strategies: Strategy A – Strengthen clinic infrastructure and improve service delivery to address the syndemic of HIV and other STIs: Syndemics are epidemics that interact with each other and by that interaction increase their adverse effects on the health of communities that face systemic, structural, and other inequities.
Holistic, coordinated care is a hallmark of the syndemic approach.
Strategy A activities will support a syndemic approach that is essential to providing patients comprehensive sexual health services in clinic settings where they routinely receive care.
Strategy B – Foster strategic partnerships in support of the EHE initiative: Community partners are uniquely positioned to complement and extend the reach of HIV/STI prevention efforts in sexual health clinics.
Under Strategy B, recipients will identify the most productive means for reaching out and engaging the community and other partners and will build action-oriented and strategic partnerships.
Award Recipients Fifteen recipients were awarded a total of $9 million for the first year of SHIPS, starting on August 1, 2024.
This cooperative agreement is for five years of funding (August 1, 2024 – July 31, 2029) based on availability of funds.
Involving Community Members in Clinic Planning In September 2023, CDC awarded funding to 26 recipients to expand access to sexual health services in communities with high HIV and STI burden and an unmet need for HIV and STI clinical services.
This award, made through the funding opportunity PS-23-0011 : Enhancing STI and Sexual Health Clinic Infrastructure (ESSHCI), has expanded services in a variety of clinical settings, including primary care clinics, community health centers and brand new sexual health clinics.
Recipients have focused on identifying and meaningfully engaging with members of priority populations disproportionately impacted by HIV and STIs in their area.
Involving community members, including people with lived experience, in the clinic-level planning process is helping recipients identify unaddressed challenges that contribute to HIV/STI, reduce stigma, improve sexual health literacy, and implement responsive interventions that can contribute to better sexual health outcomes for the community.
Award Recipients Twenty-six recipients are receiving ESSHCI funding for the program's period of performance.
Building Sexual Health Clinics’ Capacity Through Training and Technical Assistance In August 2024, CDC awarded supplemental funding to the National Network of Sexually Transmitted Diseases Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC) to bolster training and technical assistance efforts for EHE-funded sexual health clinics.
The NNPTC is developing and coordinating resources to support the integration of HIV prevention and care activities in sexual health clinics.
Examples of activities include sexual health clinic assessments, evaluation of patient flow, and provision of technical assistance to increase clinician knowledge, skills and capacity related to STI/HIV diagnosis and management for EHE-funded sexual health clinics.
Award Recipients Eight training centers and two national centers have been awarded a total of $2 million to provide training and technical assistance to EHE-funded clinics.
Map of the NNPTC's eight regional training centers Keep Reading STI Prevention Success Story‎ Turning the Page on HIV: New CDC Initiative Fuels Progress in Sexual Health Clinics Three CDC-funded jurisdictions scaled up HIV prevention services in sexual health clinics to deliver critical HIV prevention strategies to the populations who need them most.
Check out the full suite of STI prevention success stories.
Promising Practices Funded sites share strategies and activities that scale up HIV prevention services to reach populations that access care in sexual health clinics.
Promising Practices to Prevent HIV in Sexual Health Clinics Resources Turning the Tide on STIs: Integrating Services to Address the Syndemic of STIs, HIV, Substance Use, and Viral Hepatitis CDC's Ending the HIV Epidemic website America's HIV Epidemic Analysis Dashboard (AHEAD) Funding Opportunity Announcement PS20-2010: Integrated HIV Programs for Health Departments to Support Ending the HIV Epidemic in the United States ON THIS PAGE Scaling up HIV Prevention Services in Sexual Health Clinics Involving Community Members in Clinic Planning Building Sexual Health Clinics’ Capacity Through Training and Technical Assistance Keep Reading Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Tuberculosis — United States, 2021 Weekly / March 25, 2022 / 71(12);441–446 Print Thomas D.
Filardo, MD1,2; Pei-Jean Feng, MPH2; Robert H.
Pratt2; Sandy F.
Price2; Julie L.
Self, PhD2 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
The number of reported U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) cases decreased sharply in 2020, possibly related to multiple factors associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
What is added by this report?
Reported TB incidence (cases per 100,000 persons) increased 9.4%, from 2.2 during 2020 to 2.4 during 2021 but was lower than incidence during 2019 (2.7).
Increases occurred among both U.S.-born and non–U.S.-born persons.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Factors contributing to changes in reported TB during 2020–2021 likely include an actual reduction in TB incidence as well as delayed or missed TB diagnoses.
Timely evaluation and treatment of TB and latent tuberculosis infection remain critical to achieving U.S.
TB elimination.
This sharp decrease in TB incidence might have been related to multiple factors coinciding with the COVID-19 pandemic, including delayed or missed TB diagnoses or a true reduction in TB incidence related to pandemic mitigation efforts and changes in immigration and travel (2).
During 2021, a total of 7,860 TB cases were provisionally reported to CDC’s National Tuberculosis Surveillance System (NTSS) by the 50 U.S.
states and the District of Columbia (DC).
National incidence of reported TB (cases per 100,000 persons) rose 9.4% during 2021 (2.37) compared with that in 2020 (2.16) but remained 12.6% lower than the rate during 2019 (2.71).* During 2021, TB incidence increased among both U.S.-born and non–U.S.-born persons.
The increased TB incidence observed during 2021 compared with 2020 might be partially explained by delayed diagnosis of cases in persons with symptom onset during 2020; however, the continued, substantial reduction from prepandemic levels raises concern for ongoing underdiagnosis.
TB control and prevention services, including early diagnosis and complete treatment of TB and latent TB infection, should be maintained and TB awareness promoted to achieve elimination in the United States.
Health departments in the 50 U.S.
states and DC report TB cases to CDC based on the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists’ surveillance case definition, which includes both laboratory and clinically verified cases.† For each case, health departments electronically submit a report of a verified TB case to CDC.
Midyear U.S.
Census Bureau population estimates§ were used to calculate national- and state-level TB incidence per 100,000 persons along with incidence stratified by age groups.
Persons with TB were grouped by self-reported race and ethnicity according to federal guidelines.¶ Persons who self-identified as Hispanic were categorized as Hispanic irrespective of self-reported race, persons not identifying as Hispanic were categorized by self-reported race, and non-Hispanic persons who reported more than one race were categorized as “multiple races.” Midyear population estimates from the Current Population Survey** were used to calculate incidence by birth origin†† and race/ethnicity.
Percent changes in incidence were calculated using unrounded figures.
A total of 7,860 TB cases were reported during 2021, 687 more than during 2020 (7,173) and 1,040 fewer than during 2019 (8,900) (Table 1).
From 2020 to 2021, TB incidence (cases per 100,000 population) rose 9.4%, from 2.16 to 2.37, but remained 12.6% lower than during 2019 (2.71).
California reported the highest number of cases (1,750), and Alaska reported the highest incidence (7.92).
Eighteen states and DC reported the same number or fewer TB cases during 2021 than during 2020; the remaining 32 states reported more cases during 2021 than 2020.
During 2021, 71% of TB cases occurred among non–U.S.-born persons, the same proportion as in 2020 and 2019.
Incidence (cases per 100,000 population) among U.S.-born persons increased from 0.71 in 2020 to 0.79 in 2021 and among non-U.S.-born persons from 11.71 in 2020 to 12.16 in 2021 (Figure).
Incidence increased among adults aged 25–44 years (5.3%), 45–64 years (10.6%), and ≥65 years (13.2%).
Among non–U.S.-born persons with reported TB during 2021, approximately one third (1,811; 33.2%) had lived in the United States for at least 20 years before receiving a diagnosis, similar to the percentage during 2020 (1,662; 32%), and slightly more than the average of 28% (1,766) during 2015–2019.
The proportion of persons who received a diagnosis of TB who had visible acid-fast bacilli on sputum smear microscopy, a marker of infectiousness and more advanced disease, during 2020 (46.4%) and 2021 (48.1%) were higher than the average proportion during 2015–2019 (44.3%).*** When stratified by birth origin, the prevalence of smear positivity among non–U.S.-born persons during 2020 (45.5%) and 2021 (47.8%) were higher than the average during 2015–2019 (42.6%).
This increase in smear-positivity was not observed among U.S.-born persons who had received a diagnosis of TB (2021 = 48.2%; 2020 = 48.9%; average 2015–2019 = 48.7%).
Top Discussion U.S.
TB incidence during 2021 increased by 9.4% following a large decrease during 2020 (2).
Although TB cases and incidences have gradually declined in the United States since 1993, with a slowing pace of decline in recent years (1), larger changes in reported TB have occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Similar changes in TB incidence have been reported globally (3,4).
In the United States, the causes for the changes in TB incidence are likely multifactorial.
Probable explanations include a true reduction in TB disease resulting from reduced TB transmission because of pandemic mitigation efforts and fewer new arrivals from countries with higher TB incidence than the United States.
In addition, delayed or missed TB diagnoses because of disruptions in health care access or assumptions that patients with respiratory symptoms had COVID-19 might contribute to the observed changes (5).
Immigration to the United States declined by 31% during 2020,††† and similar patterns are suggested during 2021.§§§ However, immigration and travel reductions during 2020–2021 cannot fully account for the reduction in TB, because most TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons occur among those who have lived in the United States for many years and are likely the result of reactivation of latent TB infection (LTBI) (1).
Despite overall case count declines, the number of TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons living in the United States for 20 years or longer before diagnosis increased during 2021 compared with average case counts during 2015–2019, highlighting the importance of evaluation and treatment of LTBI to prevent progression to TB disease.
CDC is working to raise awareness of TB and LTBI among communities at risk and their health care providers through the new “Think.
Treat TB” campaign.¶¶¶ The increased TB incidence observed during 2021 compared with 2020 might be partially explained by delayed detection of cases with symptom onset during 2020 that were not diagnosed until 2021 because of delayed health care–seeking behavior, interruptions in health care access, or disrupted TB services related to the COVID-19 pandemic (6,7).
The small increase in the prevalence of smear positivity at diagnosis, predominantly among non–U.S.-born persons, suggests more advanced pulmonary disease, which might result from delayed diagnosis.
Avoiding missed or delayed diagnosis of TB is crucial to preventing transmission.
First, this analysis is limited to provisional 2021 TB surveillance data and case counts might change.
Second, calculated rates are based on population estimates that are subject to change.
Ongoing analyses of NTSS data and external data sources, including anti-TB drug dispensing and hospitalization data, will provide more information about the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on U.S.
TB epidemiology, including the extent to which delayed diagnosis has been a factor.
Focusing on essential TB activities, including early diagnosis and complete treatment of TB and LTBI, remains critical to achieving TB elimination in the United States.
Top Acknowledgments State, local, and territorial health department personnel; Cynthia Adams, Stacey Parker, Jeanette Roberts, Katrina Williams, Peraton, Herndon, Virginia; Division of Tuberculosis Elimination surveillance team, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC; Molly Deutsch-Feldman, Adam Langer, Jonathan Wortham, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Top Corresponding author: Thomas D.
Filardo, rhx1@cdc.gov, 404-718-2792.
Top 1Epidemic Intelligence Service, CDC; 2Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * This report is limited to National Tuberculosis Surveillance System data verified as of February 9, 2022.
Updated data will be available in CDC’s annual TB surveillance report later in 2022.
†  § 2021 vintage population estimates were used for 2021 and 2020.
2020 vintage population estimates were used for 2011–2019.
 ¶  **  †† Persons born in the United States or a U.S.
territory or elsewhere to at least one U.S.
citizen parent are categorized as U.S.-born.
All other persons are categorized as non–U.S.-born.
§§ Persons with missing race or ethnicity data are excluded from calculations of proportions.
¶¶ Percent change is not reported for non–U.S.-born AI/AN persons because there were no reported cases during 2020.
*** Percentage of positive sputum smears is calculated among persons with a positive or negative sputum smear result; those with unknown results or for whom testing was reported as not performed were excluded.
†††  §§§  ¶¶¶  **** Clinical consultation for potential TB cases is also available through state or local TB programs or the CDC-sponsored TB Centers of Excellence.
 Top References CDC.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2020.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2021.
 Deutsch-Feldman M, Pratt RH, Price SF, Tsang CA, Self JL.
Tuberculosis—United States, 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2021;70:409–14.
 PMID:33764959 World Health Organization.
Global tuberculosis report 2021.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2021.
 Pai M, Kasaeva T, Swaminathan S.
COVID-19’s devastating effect on tuberculosis care—a path to recovery.
N Engl J Med 2022.
Epub January 5, 2022.
 PMID:34986295 Narita M, Hatt G, Gardner Toren K, et al.
Delayed tuberculosis diagnoses during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in 2020—King County, Washington.
Clin Infect Dis 2021;73(Suppl 1):S74–6.
 PMID:33956137 Louie JK, Agraz-Lara R, Romo L, Crespin F, Chen L, Graves S.
Tuberculosis-associated hospitalizations and deaths after COVID-19 shelter-in-place, San Francisco, California, USA.
Emerg Infect Dis 2021;27:2227–9.
 PMID:34287142 Cronin AM, Railey S, Fortune D, Wegener DH, Davis JB.
Notes from the field: effects of the COVID-19 response on tuberculosis prevention and control efforts—United States, March–April 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:971–2.
 PMID:32701944 Top TABLE 1.
Tuberculosis disease case counts and incidence, by U.S.
state — 50 states and the District of Columbia, 2019–2021 U.S.
jurisdiction No.
of TB cases* TB incidence† 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 Total 8,900 7,173 7,860 2.71 2.16 2.37 Alabama 87 72 92 1.77 1.43 1.83 Alaska 58 58 58 7.91 7.92 7.92 Arizona 183 136 129 2.51 1.89 1.77 Arkansas 64 59 69 2.12 1.96 2.28 California 2,111 1,706 1,750 5.35 4.32 4.46 Colorado 66 52 58 1.15 0.90 1.00 Connecticut 67 54 54 1.88 1.50 1.50 Delaware 18 17 43 1.84 1.71 4.29 District of Columbia 24 19 19 3.39 2.75 2.84 Florida 558 412 499 2.60 1.91 2.29 Georgia 302 221 228 2.84 2.06 2.11 Hawaii 99 92 106 6.99 6.34 7.35 Idaho 7 8 4 0.39 0.43 0.21 Illinois 326 216 255 2.57 1.69 2.01 Indiana 108 92 127 1.60 1.36 1.87 Iowa 52 39 49 1.65 1.22 1.53 Kansas 37 37 43 1.27 1.26 1.47 Kentucky 66 67 57 1.48 1.49 1.26 Louisiana 88 99 86 1.89 2.13 1.86 Maine 18 17 14 1.34 1.25 1.02 Maryland 209 148 192 3.45 2.40 3.11 Massachusetts 178 142 151 2.58 2.02 2.16 Michigan 131 101 136 1.31 1.00 1.35 Minnesota 148 117 134 2.62 2.05 2.35 Mississippi 58 41 45 1.95 1.39 1.53 Missouri 70 79 77 1.14 1.28 1.25 Montana 2 4 3 0.19 0.37 0.27 Nebraska 17 33 22 0.88 1.68 1.12 Nevada 53 57 61 1.71 1.83 1.94 New Hampshire 6 12 12 0.44 0.87 0.86 New Jersey 310 245 279 3.49 2.64 3.01 New Mexico 41 29 24 1.95 1.37 1.13 New York 746 605 681 3.83 3.00 3.43 North Carolina 185 159 178 1.76 1.52 1.69 North Dakota 18 10 15 2.36 1.28 1.94 Ohio 150 130 149 1.28 1.10 1.26 Oklahoma 73 67 69 1.84 1.69 1.73 Oregon 70 67 78 1.66 1.58 1.84 Pennsylvania 199 156 166 1.55 1.20 1.28 Rhode Island 14 7 17 1.32 0.64 1.55 South Carolina 80 67 88 1.55 1.31 1.70 South Dakota 16 16 12 1.80 1.80 1.34 Tennessee 129 113 85 1.89 1.63 1.22 Texas 1,154 883 991 3.98 3.02 3.36 Utah 27 29 17 0.84 0.88 0.51 Vermont 4 3 2 0.64 0.47 0.31 Virginia 191 169 161 2.23 1.96 1.86 Washington 221 163 199 2.90 2.11 2.57 West Virginia 9 13 7 0.50 0.73 0.39 Wisconsin 51 35 66 0.88 0.59 1.12 Wyoming 1 0 3 0.17 0.00 0.52 Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Case counts are based on data reported to the National Tuberculosis Surveillance System as of February 9, 2022.
† Cases per 100,000 persons using midyear population estimates from the U.S.
Census Bureau.
2019 population estimates are based on the 2010 U.S.
2020 and 2021 population estimates are based on the 2020 U.S.
 Top FIGURE.
Tuberculosis disease case counts* and incidence,† by patient birth origin§ — United States, 2011–2021 * Case counts are based on data from the National Tuberculosis Surveillance System as of February 9, 2022.
† Cases per 100,000 persons.
The Current Population Survey provides the population denominators used to calculate tuberculosis incidence according to national origin and racial/ethnic group.
 (Accessed February 9, 2022).
§ Cases with unknown origin at birth excluded.
Top TABLE 2.
Tuberculosis disease case counts and incidence, by birth origin and race/ethnicity — United States, 2018–2021 Birth origin and race/ethnicity No.
of TB cases* (incidence†) 2018 2019 2020 2021 U.S.-born§ AI/AN 100 (3.91) 79 (3.35) 78 (3.54) 84 (3.72) Asian 135 (1.88) 115 (1.50) 95 (1.15) 125 (1.53) Black, non-Hispanic 950 (2.67) 909 (2.56) 731 (2.04) 739 (2.03) Hispanic 584 (1.47) 609 (1.52) 475 (1.17) 553 (1.36) NH/OPI 39 (5.17) 26 (3.92) 42 (6.20) 45 (5.85) White, non-Hispanic 806 (0.43) 756 (0.41) 565 (0.30) 640 (0.35) Unknown race/ethnicity or multiple races¶ 28 (—) 31 (—) 21 (—) 38 (—) Subtotal 2,642 (0.95) 2,525 (0.90) 2,007 (0.71) 2,224 (0.79) Non–U.S.-born AI/AN 2 (3.49) 2 (3.51) 0 (—) 1 (1.33) Asian 3,074 (26.08) 3,049 (26.17) 2,478 (22.18) 2,613 (22.99) Black, non-Hispanic 848 (20.36) 838 (19.83) 679 (15.67) 623 (14.30) Hispanic 2,040 (10.28) 2,076 (10.24) 1,650 (8.17) 1,821 (8.81) NH/OPI 73 (24.70) 80 (24.78) 75 (35.36) 68 (21.10) White, non-Hispanic 260 (3.23) 254 (3.16) 212 (2.73) 225 (2.85) Unknown race/ethnicity or multiple races¶ 58 (—) 70 (—) 55 (—) 105 (—) Subtotal 6,355 (14.33) 6,368 (14.23) 5,149 (11.71) 5,456 (12.16) Unknown national origin¶ 3 (—) 7 (—) 17 (—) 180 (—) Total 9,000 (2.75) 8,900 (2.71) 7,173 (2.16) 7,860 (2.37) Abbreviations: AI/AN = American Indian or Alaska Native; NH/OPI = Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander; TB = tuberculosis.
*Case counts are based on data from the National Tuberculosis Surveillance System as of February 9, 2022.
† Incidence is calculated per 100,000 persons.
The Current Population Survey ( ) provides the population denominators used to calculate TB incidence according to national origin and racial/ethnic group.
(Accessed February 9, 2022).
Total rate was calculated by using midyear population estimates from the U.S.
Census Bureau.
§ Persons born in the United States or a U.S.
territory or elsewhere to at least one U.S.
citizen parent are categorized as U.S.-born.
All other persons are categorized as non–U.S.-born.
¶ Incidence rates were not calculated for these categories because population estimates were not available.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Filardo TD, Feng P, Pratt RH, Price SF, Self JL.
Tuberculosis — United States, 2021.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:441–446.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All Public Health JANUARY 31, 2025 Health Equity PURPOSE Social conditions more likely to affect minority groups can cause higher STI rates among some groups.
Learning more about STIs and the factors that sustain these epidemics is a first step in empowering affected communities to improve their health status and advance health equity.
Healthy Equity and STIs Health equity is achieved when everyone has an equal chance to be healthy regardless of their background.1 Research shows that there are higher rates of sexually transmitted infections among some racial or ethnic minority groups compared to whites.23 Understanding these higher rates are not caused by ethnicity or heritage, but by social conditions that are more likely to affect minority groups, is important.
Factors such as poverty, large gaps between the rich and the poor, fewer jobs, and low education levels can make it more difficult for people to stay sexually healthy.4 People who cannot afford basic needs may have trouble accessing quality sexual health services.5 Many racial/ethnic minorities may distrust the health care system, fearing discrimination from doctors and other health care providers.6 This could create negative feelings around getting tested and treated for STIs.
In communities with higher STI rates, sexually active people may be more likely to get an STI because they have greater odds of selecting a partner who is infected.78 An STI Prevention Success Story Shaping Tomorrow's Leaders Today: Community Sexual Health Program Cultivates Leadership Skills in Youth Baltimore City Health Department and CARS team up to empower young leaders to reach their peers about sexual health.
Check out the full suite of STI prevention success stories.
Resources Health Disparities - Information and resources from CDC's Office of Minority Health and Health Equity Improving STD Prevention and Care through Partnerships Health Affairs Special Issue on Racism and Health ON THIS PAGE Healthy Equity and STIs Resources RELATED PAGES Projects & Initiatives National Disease Intervention Specialists (DIS) Recognition Day EHE NNPTC STD Surveillance Network (SSuN) VIEW ALL STI NNPTC SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All STI Surveillance Network (SSuN) JAN.
31, 2025 KEY POINTS The STI Surveillance Network allows CDC and state and local health departments to better understand the epidemiology of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) nationally and locally to inform prevention efforts.
Overview The purpose of the STI Surveillance Network (SSuN) is to: Provide enhanced behavioral, demographic, and clinical information on gonorrhea and early adult syphilis cases reported to state and local health departments.
Provide information on patients presenting for care in specialty STI clinical settings.
Explore innovative strategies to improve STI surveillance nationwide.
SSuN is a collaboration of competitively selected state, county, and city health departments, funded to provide a better understanding of national, state, and local STI epidemiology.
Established in 2005, SSuN is currently in the fifth cycle.
The current cooperative agreement for activities ongoing through 2025 is CDC-RFA-PS-24-0082 .
Strategies There are three (two core and one optional) SSuN surveillance strategies, each addressing different methods of enhanced STI surveillance.
Cycle 5 awardees have been funded for Strategy A, Strategy B, or both Strategy A Strategy A of SSuN Cycle 5 provides support for selected health departments to implement sentinel surveillance in specialty STI clinics.
Funded sites gather information on patient visits, including STI/HIV tests performed at the visit, test results, diagnoses made, and demographic and selected behavioral characteristics of the patients.
This strategy provides data on patients seeking sexual health care, provider testing and treatment practices, changes in the number and proportion of patients diagnosed with STIs and HIV co-infection, and uptake of prevention measures such as HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis for STIs (doxy PEP).
Strategy B Strategy B of SSuN Cycle 5 collects enhanced information on all reported cases of gonorrhea and syphilis.
This includes information on laboratory results, treatment, and outcomes from routine partner service interviews.
Additionally, all funded sites randomly sample reported gonorrhea and syphilis cases in their jurisdictions for enhanced clinical, treatment, and behavioral investigations.
This provides a probability sample of cases that are weighted to represent all reported cases in the participating sites.
Enhanced investigations provide valuable information on sex partners and HIV prevention measures, such as HIV PrEP and doxy PEP use.
HIV Surveillance Registry Matching All patients attending participating specialty STI clinics in Strategy A, as well as all reported gonorrhea and syphilis cases in Strategy B, are matched against the sites' HIV surveillance registry.
This allows for analysis of HIV prevalence among persons diagnosed and reported with selected infections and among persons seeking care in specialty STI clinics.
Strategy C No Strategy C projects were funded for SSuN Cycle 5.
Through this combination of collaborative surveillance activities, SSuN provides comprehensive information to supplement what CDC receives via routine national case reporting.
This information provides CDC and collaborating health departments with STI-related healthcare and incidence trends not currently available from any other source.
This page includes additional information about SSuN data collection protocols, participating jurisdictions, recent publications, and contact information for SSuN project officers.
Currently Funded SSuN Cycle 5 Collaborators (2024 – 2029) ON THIS PAGE Overview Strategies Currently Funded SSuN Cycle 5 Collaborators (2024 – 2029) SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
SEARCH About the Campaign Partner Toolkit Communication Resources for General Audiences VIEW ALL Partner Toolkit The Think.
Treat TB partner toolkit provides resources to communicate with general audiences.
Learn More Video Watch and share this video of a patient asking their health care provider about tuberculosis.
Patient Education Materials Download and order free patient education materials such as conversation guides and fact sheets.
Communication Resources for General Audiences Find campaign resources such as graphics, flyers, posters, fact sheets, and conversation guides.
For Health Care Providers Health Care Provider Toolkit The health care provider toolkit provides free resources to support TB communication and testing.
Learn More Featured About the Campaign The Think.
Treat TB campaign aims to raise awareness of tuberculosis among those at risk.
How to Order Free Tuberculosis Education Materials Order free tuberculosis (TB) education materials from CDC.
Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Treat TB is CDC’s national multilingual communications campaign to increase awareness of TB and encourage testing and treatment for inactive TB.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All Public Health JANUARY 31, 2025 Strengthening STD Prevention and Control for Health Departments (STD PCHD) AT A GLANCE Strengthening STD Prevention and Control for Health Departments, or STD PCHD, is CDC's flagship funding to prevent and control sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
This page overviews details about the funding.
What does the funding support?
State and city health departments use funding to carry out the following priority strategies and activities: Monitor STI cases and trends Provide on-the-ground prevention support Promote testing and treatment best practices Increase STI prevention knowledge Turn data into action An STI Prevention Success Story Preventing Congenital Syphilis in the US Learn about the nine CDC-funded jurisdictions that made great strides in establishing and activating systems to help identify and prevent congenital syphilis in their communities.
Check out the full suite of STI prevention success stories.
What else should people know about STD PCHD?
STD PCHD supports strategies and activities to Eliminate congenital syphilis Prevent drug-resistant gonorrhea Reduce primary and secondary syphilis Prevent STI-related pelvic inflammatory disease, ectopic pregnancy, and infertility Address STI-related outbreaks Reduce STI-related health disparities The funding focuses on these priority populations Adolescents and young adults Gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men Pregnant women It funds these recipients Award recipients include state, local and territorial health departments or their Bona Fide Agents.
This includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands.
Also included are the local (county or city) health departments serving the following metropolitan areas: Baltimore, MD; Chicago, IL; Los Angeles, CA; Philadelphia, PA; New York City, NY; and San Francisco, CA.
ON THIS PAGE What does the funding support?
What else should people know about STD PCHD?
RELATED PAGES Projects & Initiatives EHE Health Equity NNPTC STD Surveillance Network (SSuN) CARGOS VIEW ALL STI STI Program Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Testing Prevention Fact Sheets VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Doxy PEP Clinical Slides Guidelines for Doxycycline VIEW ALL Public Health STI Program Resources STI Training From the Director Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT) Communication Resources Projects & Initiatives VIEW ALL Related Topics: About Chlamydia | About Gonorrhea | About Syphilis | About STI Funding | STI Awareness Week | The Toolkit for Technology-based Partner Services for Public Health View All AUGUST 1, 2024 Combatting Antimicrobial Resistant Gonorrhea and Other STIs (CARGOS) KEY POINTS The Combatting Antimicrobial Resistant Gonorrhea and Other STIs (CARGOS) project allows CDC and state and local health departments to monitor trends in antimicrobial-resistant (AR) gonorrhea and other STIs in the U.S.
It is intended to strengthen state and local capacity to rapidly detect and respond to threats of resistance.
Overview The purpose of the Combatting Antimicrobial Resistant Gonorrhea and Other STIs (CARGOS) project is to monitor trends in antimicrobial-resistant gonorrhea and other STIs in the U.S.
It is intended to strengthen state and local capacity to rapidly detect and respond to threats of AR.
CARGOS is funded via CDC's Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Prevention and Control of Emerging Infectious Diseases (ELC) Cooperative Agreement.
Strategies There are four CARGOS strategies.
Each strategy includes required activities, and some include optional activities.
Strategy 1 - Strengthen Capacity Strategy 1 of CARGOS is to strengthen local epidemiologic capacity to detect, monitor, and respond to AR in STIs.
Within strategy 1, the four required activities are: Improve surveillance and reporting of male urethral gonorrhea in STI clinics.
Improve surveillance and reporting of male and female pharyngeal gonorrhea in STI clinics.
Enhance workforce capacity to detect, monitor, and respond to AR in STIs.
Conduct rapid & robust investigations when concerning isolates are identified.
Optional activities in strategy 1 are: Improve surveillance and reporting of gonorrhea from populations where AR is likely.
Improve surveillance and reporting of male rectal gonorrhea in STI clinics.
Sustain monitoring of Neisseria meningitidis male urethral isolates.
Enhance surveillance and reporting of STIs with emerging AR.
Strategy 2 - Improve Coordination in Preparedness and Outbreak Response Strategy 2 of CARGOS is to improve coordination of AR in STI preparedness and outbreak response activities.
Within strategy 2, the three required activities are: Establish/refine statewide AR in STI response infrastructure and protocols.
Develop/maintain a state and/or local jurisdiction outbreak response plan.
Conduct at least one preparedness exercise to practice the outbreak response plan.
Strategy 3 - Enhance Local Lab Testing Strategy 3 of CARGOS is to enhance local laboratory testing for surveillance, reporting, and response.
Within strategy 3, the required activity is to: Establish or enhance gradient strip antimicrobial susceptibility capacity via Etest.
The optional activity within strategy 3 is to: Conduct a molecular assay to detect markers of cephalosporin resistance using a CDC-provided real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay.
Strategy 4 - Enhance Coordination in Information Technology Strategy 4 of CARGOS is to enhance coordination between epi-lab-health information technology.
Within strategy 4, the two required activities are to: Improve data management and quality through regular assessment of data and implementation of processes to improve data quality, completeness, and timeliness.
Improve data and information flow by developing strategies for data flow from local and state agencies for managing isolates of concerns, and supporting linkage of data systems (including lab, clinical, and epidemiological data).
Currently Funded CARGOS Jurisdictions (2024-2025) In the first year of the project, CDC has awarded a total of $6.5 million to the following recipients: ON THIS PAGE Overview Strategies Currently Funded CARGOS Jurisdictions (2024-2025) SOURCES PRINT SHARE STI STIs are common.
Many are curable - all are preventable.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All DECEMBER 21, 2023 How to Order Free Tuberculosis Education Materials WHAT TO KNOW Did you know that CDC has free tuberculosis (TB) education materials available to order within the United States?
Follow the steps on this page to order TB materials.
Step 1: Visit the CDC On Demand website CDC Publications On Demand allows people in the United States to order printed copies of TB materials such as: Fact sheets, Posters, Booklets, Training resources, and Other educational materials.
Step 2: Search available materials and add selected items to your cart If you are looking for specific materials, enter your search terms in "Search Publications." View Larger Search Publications menu To view all available TB materials, select "Tuberculosis (TB)" under the "Topic" drop down menu.
View Larger Select "Tuberculosis (TB)" To view TB materials by program, use the "Program" drop down menu to select "Tuberculosis - For Health Care Providers" or "Tuberculosis - For Patients and the General Public." View Larger Select "Tuberculosis - For Health Care Providers" View Larger Select "Tuberculosis - For Patients and the General Public" Step 3: Check out Once satisfied with all of the requested materials, click "My Cart" in the upper right corner of the page.
View Larger My cart menu From the "My Cart" page, you can See all selected materials, Update your order quantity, Continue shopping, or Proceed to checkout.
View Larger "My cart" shows your selected materials and quantities.
What if I cannot find the material I am looking for?
Not all TB education materials are available to order printed copies through CDC On Demand.
Materials may be available for download on the CDC website.
Please use TB skin test rulers wisely.‎ If the CDC On Demand website does not list TB rulers, they may be out of stock.
Rulers for TB skin tests are difficult to order.
They are not a single use item, please conserve and use wisely.
Resources CDC Publications On Demand General Public Communication and Education Resources Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources Find TB Resources ON THIS PAGE Step 1: Visit the CDC On Demand website Step 2: Search available materials and add selected items to your cart Step 3: Check out What if I cannot find the material I am looking for?
Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About the Campaign Partner Toolkit Communication Resources for General Audiences VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Health Care Provider Toolkit Communication Resources for Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) View All AUGUST 13, 2024 Patient Education Materials AT A GLANCE The Think.
Treat TB campaign includes several patient education materials.
Use and share these patient education materials to provide information on tuberculosis (TB) and the importance of TB testing and treatment.
Patient education materials In addition to the resources provided here, the Campaign Resource Overview provides a list of materials available for download and print.
Selected materials are available free of charge (within the United States) for order via CDC-Info On Demand Publications (see ordering instructions).
Download or order materials in Chinese, English, Ilocano, Marshallese, Spanish, Tagalog, and Vietnamese.
Inactive Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment Flyer This flyer provides a visual overview of tuberculosis risk factors, testing, and treatment options.
6, 2024 Inactive Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment Poster This poster provides a visual overview of TB risk factors and TB testing and treatment options.
6, 2024 Why Should I Be Tested for Inactive Tuberculosis?
Fact Sheet This fact sheet explains TB risk factors, testing, and treatment options.
28, 2024 Learn the Facts About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet This fact sheet explains common misunderstandings and facts about tuberculosis.
28, 2024 How Do I Talk to My Healthcare Provider about Inactive Tuberculosis?
Conversation Guide This conversation guide helps patients talk to their health care provider about TB risk and testing.
JULY 15, 2024 HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Health Care Provider and Patient Education Materials Resources General Public Communication and Education Resources Find TB Resources Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Think.
Treat TB is CDC’s national multilingual communications campaign to increase awareness of TB and encourage testing and treatment for inactive TB.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About the Campaign Partner Toolkit Communication Resources for General Audiences VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Health Care Provider Toolkit Communication Resources for Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) View All SEPTEMBER 3, 2024 Think.
Treat TB Video ABOUT This 30 second video features a patient asking her health care provider about tuberculosis (TB).
It is available in English and Vietnamese.
English Low Resolution Video Vietnamese Low Resolution Video SOURCES PRINT SHARE Think.
Treat TB is CDC’s national multilingual communications campaign to increase awareness of TB and encourage testing and treatment for inactive TB.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health The Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity (ELC) Program ELC Funding Structure of ELC Public Health Strategy Success Stories VIEW ALL View All APRIL 11, 2024 Programs & Projects: Structure of ELC AT A GLANCE The Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Prevention and Control of Emerging Infectious Diseases (ELC) Cooperative Agreement awards funding to 65 state, large local, and U.S.
territory and affiliate health departments.
It advances infectious disease capacity through core public health programs and a range of disease-specific projects and includes flexible support to address emerging threats and outbreaks.
This funding mechanism also allows ELC to distribute supplemental funding on behalf of CDC for emergency response efforts.
What Sets us Apart The ELC Cooperative Agreement awards critical support for six core infectious disease programs: Cross-cutting Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity Program Enteric, Foodborne, Waterborne, and Zoonotic Disease Program Healthcare-associated Infections, Antimicrobial Resistance, and Antibiotic Stewardship Program Antimicrobial Resistance Laboratory Network Enhanced Surveillance for Vaccine-Preventable Disease and Respiratory Diseases Program Vector-borne Diseases and Tick-Associated Conditions Program It also supports a range of disease-specific projects and distributes supplemental funding on behalf of CDC for emergency response efforts, such as those for the influenza H1N1, Zika, and Ebola epidemics, and most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic.
Flexible funding allows recipients to meet their own changing needs, instead of a one-size-fits-all strategy and ensures readiness for emerging disease threats and outbreaks.
Funding for leadership and management supports strategic planning and management of ELC resources.
Disease-specific projects allow for prioritization of health topics specific to certain areas or populations, while cross-cutting projects and programs enhance collaboration between state epidemiology, laboratory, and local public health partners.
See the ELC Cooperative Agreement fact sheet for a complete breakdown of FY24 funding by Program and Project.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity The ELC Program provides flexible funding to the nation's health departments to detect, prevent, and respond to infectious disease outbreaks.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All JANUARY 25, 2024 About Division of Tuberculosis Elimination AT A GLANCE Division of Tuberculosis Elimination confronts the root causes of Tuberculosis (TB) by improving care and treatment access for the nation’s most disproportionately affected persons.
We engage community, state, and national leaders to serve the public and groups at higher risk of TB infection and illness.
Our mission To promote health and quality of life by preventing, controlling, and eventually eliminating TB in the United States.
Values Excellence Achieve the highest standard of performance in public health science, program, and policy Equity Enhance research, policy, and program efforts so all people have the best opportunity for health Diversity and inclusion Recruit and maintain a highly trained, inclusive, and professional workforce that reflects the communities we serve Integrity Be honest, accurate, and consistent Transparency Ensure staff, partners, and the public timely access to accurate and complete information Priorities Monitor progress toward TB elimination through national TB surveillance Strengthen the capacity of state and local health departments and other partners to prevent, control, and eventually eliminate TB through funding, embedded staff, communication, education and training Serve as the national TB reference laboratory and augment laboratory capacity with state and local partners Conduct behavioral, epidemiological, clinical, laboratory and operational research to develop and evaluate new tools and interventions for diagnosis, treatment, prevention and control of TB KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Elimination Priorities Goals Reduce TB disease in the United States with a particular focus on reducing disparities in TB disease among disproportionately affected groups, including non–U.S.-born persons U.S.-born racial and ethnic minority groups, and persons experiencing homelessness or incarceration.
Why it matters TB disease Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
TB bacteria usually attack the lungs, but they can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain.
TB disease is almost always curable if treated promptly with the correct medications.
If not treated properly, however, TB disease can be fatal.
TB usually spreads through the air from one person to another.
Latent TB infection and TB disease Not everyone infected with TB bacteria becomes sick.
As a result, two TB-related conditions exist: latent TB infection and TB disease.
People with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB bacteria to others.
However, if TB bacteria become active in the body and multiply, the person will go from having latent TB infection to being sick with TB disease.
Without treatment, people with latent TB infection have a 5%-10% risk of progressing to TB disease over their lifetime.
TB remains one of the world's leading infectious disease killers Two billion people – one fourth of the world's population – are infected with M.
tuberculosis More than 10 million of those people become ill with active TB disease each year, including 1,100,000 children, and over 500,000 persons with drug-resistant TB disease.
TB affects millions of people around the world and in the United States; in every state; in rural areas and cities; in schools, workplaces, homes; and in many other places where people are in close contact.
Too many people still suffer from TB disease in the United States In the early 20th century, TB disease was the leading cause of death in the United States.
TB cases generally declined until the late 1980s and early 1990s when a TB resurgence occurred with over 25,000 TB cases being reported per year.
The resurgence was associated with the emergence of the HIV epidemic, increased immigration from countries with high TB rates, and a deterioration of TB control programs in many areas.
TB cases began to decline again after a major investment in 1993 in TB control activities at all levels of government.
However, the annual rate of decline has been inadequate to achieve the nation's TB elimination goal.
Although the United States has reported record low TB cases, too many people still suffer from TB disease in this country.
Up to 13 million people in the United States have latent TB infection, and without treatment, are at greater risk for developing TB disease in the future.
CDC's work in the United States supports a dual approach to find and treat active TB disease and test for and treat latent TB infection to prevent progression to disease.
Resources DTBE Strategic Plan 2022 - 2026 CDC-INFO Have a question on tuberculosis?
Need a publication?
Have a comment or suggestion about our website?
CDC-INFO offers live agent services to help you find the latest and reliable science-based health information.
CDC-INFO's operating hours are 8am-8pm ET/Monday-Friday; Closed Holidays.
Telephone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) TTY: 1-888-232-6348 Contact CDC-INFO ON THIS PAGE Our mission Values Priorities Goals Why it matters Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All APRIL 2, 2024 Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources WHAT TO KNOW CDC has tuberculosis (TB) resources to increase awareness about the TB screening and attestation requirements of the Uniting for Ukraine program.
Materials are available in Ukrainian, Russian, and English.
How to use these resources The Uniting for Ukraine program is a pathway for Ukrainian citizens to come to the United States and stay temporarily.
People participating in the program must meet specific health requirements , including vaccinations and TB testing and attestation to the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
While many arrivals have completed the TB screening requirement, others have shared challenges such as language barriers, cost, and lack of awareness on how and where to get tested for TB.
Use these materials in your communication and outreach efforts about the Uniting for Ukraine TB screening and attestation requirement.
The materials can be adapted to promote local TB testing events, resources, and share information for arrivals and their sponsors.
Materials are available free of charge (within the United States) for order via CDC-Info On Demand Publications (see ordering instructions).
Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All JANUARY 25, 2024 About Division of Viral Hepatitis AT A GLANCE Division of Viral Hepatitis (DVH) seeks to eliminate viral hepatitis by improving care and treatment access for the nation’s most disproportionately affected persons.
We engage community, state, and national leaders to serve the public and groups at higher risk of viral hepatitis infection, illness, and death.
Our mission To end the viral hepatitis epidemics through leadership in science and public health practices Values Respect Treat persons with professionalism and dignity, and embrace inclusivity and diversity Integrity Communicate openly, and use honesty and ethics in all decisions and actions Excellence Achieve the highest standard of performance in all endeavors promoting DVH’s public health mission Innovation Create an environment that encourages and cultivates new ideas and critical thinking Accountability Be a diligent steward of resources and be responsible in all actions and interactions Collaboration Ensure productive engagement and transparency with internal and external partners Priorities Monitor viral hepatitis disease trends Detect and respond to viral hepatitis outbreaks Support state, local, tribal, and territorial capacity to conduct viral hepatitis surveillance and increase access to viral hepatitis prevention, diagnosis, and treatment services Work with federal, state, and community partners as well as health care systems and providers to increase access to viral hepatitis prevention, diagnosis, and treatment services for all populations, including disproportionately affected populations (e.g., people with substance use disorder, justice involved populations, people living with HIV) Advance viral hepatitis research Develop and promote viral hepatitis national testing and vaccination recommendations Increase public awareness of viral hepatitis KEEP READING: Viral Hepatitis Prevention Priorities Goals Goal 1: Reduce new viral hepatitis infections Goal 2: Reduce viral hepatitis-related morbidity and mortality Goal 3: Reduce viral hepatitis-related disparities Goal 4: Establish comprehensive national viral hepatitis surveillance for public health action Resources CDC-INFO Have a question on viral hepatitis?
Need a publication?
Have a comment or suggestion about our website?
CDC-INFO offers live agent services to help you find the latest and reliable science-based health information.
Operating hours are 8am-8pm ET/Monday-Friday; Closed Holidays.
Telephone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) TTY: 1-888-232-6348 Contact CDC-INFO DVH lab and epidemiology If you are a state or local health department with a question about outbreak investigation, management and/or specimens, please email DVH staff.
International travel Information related to international travel, including destination-specific vaccination recommendations, travel health notices, health precautions, and outbreaks can be found on CDC's Travelers' Health website.
You may also contact CDC INFO.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Values Priorities Goals Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All APRIL 2, 2024 Uniting for Ukraine: Information for Tuberculosis Programs PURPOSE Health departments, public health partners, and groups working with arrivals from Ukraine through the Uniting for Ukraine program and their sponsors can use these strategies and resources to increase awareness about the programs screening requirements for tuberculosis (TB).
About the Program On May 21, 2022, President Biden signed into law emergency supplemental appropriations (Public Law 117-128 ) that included funds for medical support, screening, and other public health activities related to populations displaced from Ukraine.
Under the Uniting for Ukraine program, an estimated 100,000 displaced Ukrainians are expected to arrive in the United States.
The program is a pathway for Ukrainian citizens to come to the United States and stay temporarily for a two-year period.
Entry to the United States for Ukrainian citizens under this pathway is known as "parole." Shortly after arrival, Ukrainians participating in the program must meet specific health requirements , including vaccinations and tuberculosis (TB) testing.
To support this effort, CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination awarded approximately $27 million in supplemental funding under CDC-RFA-PS20-2001 to currently funded states, cities, and territories for screening, evaluation, and treatment of latent TB infection and TB disease among Ukrainians paroled into the United States.
Information for Arrivals and Sponsors People arriving in the United States as part of Uniting for Ukraine must be screened for TB disease.
All people two years of age or older will need to be screened for TB by getting an interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) test within 90 days after arrival to the United States.
Contact your local or state health department to find out how to get tested.
Your local or state health department may be able to provide you with a TB blood test or refer you to other testing locations.
You may also be able to get a TB blood test at a healthcare provider's office or a local laboratory.
About the TB blood test An IGRA is a blood test to tell if a person has been infected with TB germs.
It does not tell whether the person has latent TB infection or has progressed to TB disease.
For the TB blood test, a healthcare provider or laboratory technician will draw your blood and send it to a laboratory for analysis and results.
Only one visit is needed to draw blood for the test, but results can take up to 4 weeks.
If you have a positive reaction to the TB blood test, your doctor or nurse will do other tests to see if you have TB disease.
TB screening costs may vary by location.
Check with your local or state health department for information on TB screening costs.
TB screening may be available for free or at a reduced cost.
Certain Ukrainian persons may be eligible for benefits through the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) or through other federally funded benefit programs.
Coverage of the initial TB screening and blood test will depend on When you apply for benefits or health insurance, If the state offers retroactive coverage, and If the healthcare provider can bill your health insurance.
Communication and Education Resources CDC resources CDC has communication and education materials available in Ukrainian, Russian, and English for download.
Select materials are available free of charge (within the United States) for order via CDC-Info On Demand Publications (see ordering instructions).
Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Uniting for Ukraine communication materials are available in Ukrainian, Russian, and English.
2, 2024 What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Use this fact sheet to learn basic information about tuberculosis (TB).
29, 2024 Download Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Questions and Answers About TB has information on inactive TB and TB disease.
1, 2024 Download Find TB Resources Find TB Resources connects you to a worldwide library of online resources, training, and educational materials.
Sample Letter to Refugee Service Partners Health departments can use this sample letter template to coordinate with refugee services partners.
Through the Uniting for Ukraine program, Ukrainian parolees are required to undergo testing with a TB-specific interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) test and subsequent TB diagnostic studies as needed.
The time period for completing the TB screening is within 90 days of arrival in the United States.
Parolees are also required to be vaccinated for several infections.
Department of Homeland Security: Uniting for Ukraine U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services: Uniting for Ukraine Vaccine Attestation HHS Office of Refugee Resettlement: Benefits for Ukrainian Humanitarian Parolees Fact Sheet ON THIS PAGE About the Program Information for Arrivals and Sponsors Communication and Education Resources Sample Letter to Refugee Service Partners Information for Public Health and Community Organizations Related links SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All OCTOBER 8, 2024 National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) KEY POINTS NTIP is a web-based tool that utilizes nationally set indicators to measure program progress toward achieving the National TB Objectives.
These measures are developed to assess program progress towards the National TB Program Objectives agreed upon by CDC and the federally funded TB programs.
Background NTIP provides TB program officials with reports generated from data submitted to CDC.
The reports provide a snapshot of the program's overall performance and detailed indicator reports.
The reports include graphs comparing their current performance to previous years and national averages.
The reports also include summary tables of the variables used in each indicator and cohort calculation.
NTIP provides individual case data for further investigation and evaluation.
Using NTIP, CDC consultants and TB program officials can prioritize program activities.
Learn More About the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project NTIP is a web-based performance-monitoring tool that utilizes indicators to assess program progress.
8, 2024 National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets 2030 CDC's national performance targets help track progress towards TB elimination.
10, 2024 National TB Indicators Project User Guide The NTIP User Guide provides technical guidance in the use and interpretation of NTIP reports.
23, 2024 Download National TB Indicators Project Companion for Data Managers The document provides technical guidance in the calculation of indicators and data definitions.
23, 2024 Download SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All APRIL 2, 2024 Tuberculosis Information for Emergencies and Disasters WHAT TO KNOW Emergencies and disasters can make efforts to help TB patients continue their treatment difficult.
TB programs work to ensure that people who are receiving treatment for TB are able to continue their treatment, even during an emergency or disaster.
The importance of TB treatment TB programs help patients continue treatment.‎ If you are currently taking treatment for TB and your medical visits have been affected by an emergency or disaster, contact your state or local TB program.
State TB Programs It is very important that people who have tuberculosis (TB) disease receive treatment, take the medicine exactly as prescribed by their health care provider, and finish the medicine.
If they stop taking the medicine too soon, they can become sick again.
If they do not take the medicine correctly, the TB bacteria that are still alive may become resistant to those drugs.
TB that is resistant to drugs is harder to treat.
TB program preparedness TB programs can help people who are receiving treatment for TB are able to continue their treatment, even if they are displaced temporarily or permanently by an emergency or disaster or if an emergency or disaster impacts routine health care services.
Ensuring continuity of TB treatment during emergencies and disasters should be included as part of public health emergency preparedness planning.
In the event of an emergency or disaster, TB programs should: Make sure contact information for patients is current, and staff can reach patients with updates and information, even if patients evacuate to other locations.
Provide contact information of TB program personnel to patients.
Communicate and changes or updates in service to community partners.
Consider providing additional medications to patients if health department operations are likely to be affected.
If policies and procedures are in place, consider alternative treatment delivery methods, such as video directly observed therapy (vDOT).
Preventing TB transmission in shelters In response to an emergency or disaster, communities may open emergency or temporary shelters.
Existing shelters may also expand their hours.
Shelter managers, staff, and clients should be aware of TB and ways to prevent TB transmission.
The following messages may be helpful reminders for organizations and agencies involved in sheltering activities.
TB is spread through the air from one person to another.
The TB germs are put into the air when a person with active TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, speaks, or sings.
Symptoms of TB disease may include a cough that last 3 weeks or longer, chest pain, weight loss, and night sweats.
If anyone in your shelter has symptoms of TB disease, contact the state or local TB program immediately.
If possible, use respiratory control measures to reduce the risk of transmission.
Encourage all shelter staff, volunteers, or clients who are coughing to wear a mask.
Provide disposable paper or cloth surgical masks to anyone with symtpoms of TB disease.
Separate people who are coughing until they can receive medical evaluation to rule out TB disease.
Encourage staff and volunteers who are coughing to stay home.
Facilities should consult with their local health department about the necessity and frequency of TB screening for staff, volunteers, and clients.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Guidance for Hurricane Workers and Evacuees Resources State Tuberculosis Programs Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023 Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A Toolkit for Tuberculosis Programs ON THIS PAGE The importance of TB treatment TB program preparedness Preventing TB transmission in shelters Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All NOVEMBER 14, 2024 Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs KEY POINTS There are several tools available to help tuberculosis (TB) programs estimate the costs of different interventions and costs of cases of TB disease and latent TB infection.
Tabby2 Tool Tabby2 is a user-friendly tool available online for U.S.
states and the District of Columbia to estimate future U.S.
TB and latent TB infection cases based on a published TB transmission model.
The tool also estimates resources needed to eliminate TB, including targeted testing for latent TB infection.
Tabby2 provides projections based on state-specific historical trends, in addition to national projections based on national trends.
Tabby2 users can build a custom scenario by state, population, and their assumptions about the testing and treatment care cascade.
Users can also select an existing scenario to receive estimates of the cost of programmatic resources for the intervention and the estimated future costs of TB cases averted and the years of life saved from averted TB.
Tabby2 users can: Build a custom scenario by state, population, and assumptions about the testing and treatment care cascade.
Select an existing scenario to receive estimates of the cost of programmatic resources for the intervention and the estimated future costs of TB cases averted and the years of life saved from averted TB.
Calculate the number and cost of: Latent TB infection tests, Latent TB infection treatments, TB disease cases, and Cost effectiveness of interventions compared with baseline scenarios.
Set informed targets to make a compelling case to further TB elimination.
Have questions about Tabby2?‎ Visit the Tabby2 website and submit comments and questions through the feedback form.
Video DOT Cost Calculator Tool The Video Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) Cost Calculator Tool was piloted to estimate video DOT and traditional in-person DOT costs for specific districts and localities.
Do you need access to the cost calculator tool?
This tool is available by request.
Please email your request to TBPEN@cdc.gov.
KEEP READING: Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A Toolkit for Tuberculosis Programs Resources NEEMA Funded Projects - Tuberculosis Tabby2 Cost of Tuberculosis Therapy Directly Observed on Video for Health Departments and Patients in New York City; San Francisco, California; and Rhode Island (2017–2018) Estimated Treatment Costs for Multidrug-Resistant TB in the United States Estimated Costs of 4-Month Pulmonary Tuberculosis Treatment Regimen, United States ON THIS PAGE Tabby2 Tool Video DOT Cost Calculator Tool Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All NOVEMBER 6, 2024 TB Program Evaluation AT A GLANCE Tuberculosis (TB) programs can use program evaluation to inform program activities and drive continuous program improvement.
CDC provides helpful resources for programs to use for performance monitoring and evaluation.
Getting Started Program evaluation activities are most effective when implemented throughout the course of the program.
By continually planning for, implementing, and refining the steps in your evaluation process, you are laying the groundwork for informed decision making, effective collaboration, and continuous quality improvement.
Evaluations can be as different as the programs being evaluated.
Evaluators work closely with their program leadership, program staff, and other interest holders, to decide how complex an evaluation needs to be.
Starting small is often a good idea, and you probably already have valuable information you can use in your evaluation.
Program evaluation reveals how effectively you are using your resources and attributing to achieving outcomes.
It also allows your program to determine the next course of action and showcase your program's success.
View LargerDownload CDC's Program Evaluation Framework provides a guide for designing and conducting evaluation across many programs and settings within and outside public health.
TB Program Evaluation Tools CDC has tools to assist TB programs in evaluation planning and implementation.
These tools expand on CDC's Evaluation Framework with examples relevant to TB programs.
Monitor program performance About the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project NTIP is a web-based performance-monitoring tool that utilizes indicators to assess program progress.
8, 2024 National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets 2030 CDC's national performance targets help track progress towards TB elimination.
10, 2024 Develop an evaluation plan Selecting a Program Evaluation Focus Area Using NTIP TB programs can use indicators to identify specific focus areas for program evaluation.
4, 2024 Developing Objectives and Evaluation Questions TB program staff can learn how to develop evaluation objectives and questions.
8, 2024 Developing a Logic Model TB programs can tailor logic models to fit their program's needs and activities.
4, 2024 Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs There are tools available to help programs estimate the costs of different interventions and cases.
14, 2024 Review TB-specific evaluation plan examples Program Evaluation and Annual Report Example: LTBI Treatment This example shows an evaluation plan and annual report about LTBI treatment completion.
5, 2024 Program Evaluation and Annual Report Example: Diabetes This example shows an evaluation plan and annual report about TB and diabetes.
8, 2024 Use evaluation findings Developing and Implementing a Remediation Plan TB programs can implement remediation strategies based on program evaluation findings.
6, 2024 Sharing your TB Program Evaluation Findings This tool helps TB programs share evaluation findings.
7, 2024 Data Sources National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation Data Tuberculosis Data Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Data Resources TB Program Evaluation Network (TB PEN) Wiki page Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) Progress Toward Tuberculosis Elimination and Tuberculosis Program Performance — National Tuberculosis Indicators Project, 2016–2022 ON THIS PAGE Getting Started TB Program Evaluation Tools Data Sources Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All SEPTEMBER 5, 2024 2024 TB ETN and TB PEN Conference Summary WHAT TO KNOW The 2024 Tuberculosis Education and Training Network (TB ETN) and Tuberculosis Program Evaluation Network (TB PEN) Conference took place on September 17–19, 2024, in Atlanta, Georgia.
This conference presented a unique opportunity for TB program staff to expand their understanding of TB education, training, and program evaluation.
Conference Highlights and Key Takeaways The conference provided an opportunity for TB program staff to enhance their knowledge of TB education, training, and program evaluation.
Over 180 participants from TB programs across the United States participated in a range of activities.
This included skills-based workshops, informative presentations, round table discussions with subject matter experts, and networking opportunities.
Faculty and staff included subject matter experts from across CDC, including: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination Division of Workforce Development Division of Global Migration and Health Division of Global Health Protection Attendees interacting at a CDC booth during the 2024 TB ETN and TB PEN Conference.
Topics Explored Conference breakout and plenary sessions explored a variety of subjects including: The impact of artificial intelligence on public health education and communication Improving identification and treatment for populations at high risk of TB Risk communication strategies Cultural considerations in newcomer communities' TB programs Strategies for enhancing contact investigation examination and treatment initiation TB survivors from We Are TB , added a powerful dimension to the conference by sharing their personal stories and insights.
They emphasized the importance of advocating for and supporting those affected by the disease.
Practical Insights for TB Programs The conference dedicated sessions to important initiatives such as the Tuberculosis Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation activities.
There were sessions on human resources development updates for TB education, training, and evaluation focal points, program evaluation survey design, and data analysis.
Plenaries on health equity and TB and CDC's Think.
Treat TB campaign and the TB Elimination Alliance provided valuable forums for thoughtful conversations on these critical topics.
A scientific poster session showcased 24 abstracts including four oral presentations.
The conference allowed TB program staff to expand their understanding of TB education, training, and program evaluation.
Participants left the conference with new knowledge and skills to apply back in their TB programs.
ON THIS PAGE Conference Highlights and Key Takeaways Topics Explored Practical Insights for TB Programs SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023 Weekly / March 24, 2023 / 72(12);313–316 Print Joan M.
Mangan, PhD1; Rachel S.
Woodruff, MPH1; Carla A.
Winston, PhD1; Scott A.
Nabity, MD1; Maryam B.
Haddad, PhD1; Meredith G.
Dixon, MD1; Farah M.
Parvez, MD1; Carissa Sera-Josef, MS1; LaTweika A.
Salmon-Trejo, MPH1; Chee Kin Lam, MS, MPH1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Directly observed therapy (DOT) for tuberculosis treatment involves observing a patient ingest medication, monitoring the patient for adverse events, and providing support for treatment completion.
DOT has typically been conducted in person; however, scheduling in-person DOT can present logistical challenges.
What is added by this report?
Based on published evidence evaluating treatment adherence and completion and microbiologic resolution of disease, CDC recommends video DOT (vDOT) as equivalent to in-person DOT for persons undergoing treatment for diagnosed tuberculosis.
What are the implications for public health practice?
vDOT can assist health department tuberculosis programs meet the U.S.
standard of care for patients undergoing tuberculosis treatment, while using resources efficiently.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (5) Policy documents (1) X (30) Facebook (2) Clinical guidelines (1) Mendeley (75) 14 14 Total citations 13 Recent citations 9.71 Field Citation Ratio 2.46 Relative Citation Ratio Table Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF View Larger U.S.
clinical practice guidelines recommend directly observed therapy (DOT) as the standard of care for tuberculosis (TB) treatment (1).
DOT, during which a health care worker observes a patient ingesting the TB medications, has typically been conducted in person.
Video DOT (vDOT) uses video-enabled devices to facilitate remote interactions between patients and health care workers to promote medication adherence and clinical monitoring.
Published systematic reviews, a published meta-analysis, and a literature search through 2022 demonstrate that vDOT is associated with a higher proportion of medication doses being observed and similar proportions of cases with treatment completion and microbiologic resolution when compared with in-person DOT (2–5).
Based on this evidence, CDC has updated the recommendation for DOT during TB treatment to include vDOT as an equivalent alternative to in-person DOT.
vDOT can assist health department TB programs meet the U.S.
standard of care for patients undergoing TB treatment, while using resources efficiently.
Top Background The 2016 U.S.
clinical practice guidelines for TB treatment recommend DOT as the standard of care (1).
During DOT, a health care worker observes patients ingest their medications, monitors them for adverse events, and provides social support (e.g., personal connection, encouragement, advice, or assistance navigating challenges that occur with illness).
Typically, DOT has involved meeting in person at a mutually agreed-upon location within the community or in a clinical setting; however, participation in DOT in person can be logistically challenging.
Scheduling can interfere with patients’ employment, schooling, or other daily activities, and arranging transportation for DOT can be difficult.
With community-based DOT, the daily arrival and departure of health care workers might also prompt unwelcome questions from neighbors or coworkers or result in the creation of stigma for the patient.
Moreover, in-person DOT might not always be feasible during inclement weather, natural disasters, or a pandemic.
vDOT (also known as video DOT) allows persons undergoing TB treatment the opportunity to use video-enabled phones, tablets, or computers to remotely interact with health care workers in real time (synchronous) or through recorded videos (asynchronous).
CDC reviewed published evidence on vDOT compared with in-person DOT for TB treatment adherence, completion, and microbiologic resolution to update the 2016 clinical practice guidelines (1).
This update is for organizations and providers responsible for providing care for and monitoring treatment of persons with diagnosed TB in the United States and affiliated areas.
Additional considerations, concerns, and limitations are available.* Top Methods CDC developed these guidelines based on evidence presented by a systematic review and a meta-analysis that included studies published from the time the searched databases were initially available through January 2021 (2).
An additional search of articles published during February 1, 2021–May 13, 2022, was conducted to identify subsequent studies that were not included in the systematic review and meta-analysis.
The search of articles listed in PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane databases was conducted using the keywords “tuberculosis” and “directly observed therapy”; “directly observed treatment”; “video observed”; “video supported”; “adherence”; “treatment completion”; or “cell-,” “smart-,” or “tele-” “phone.” Studies were excluded if they did not report data for treatment adherence, treatment completion, or microbiologic testing; did not have a comparison group; or focused on the use of text message reminders or device-facilitated monitoring without video capability (e.g., medication containers with wireless sensors or ingestible sensors).
Studies were also excluded if they compared vDOT with self-administered therapy or reported populations undergoing TB treatment in an inpatient, institutional, or medically supervised residential setting (e.g., a rehabilitation center).
Two reviewers screened article abstracts for exclusion criteria and then independently documented participant demographics, DOT methods, doses scheduled for DOT, medication adherence, and treatment outcomes from retained articles that met inclusion criteria.
Studies involving persons of any age, any sex, and from any upper-middle– to high-income country with a diagnosis (or suspected diagnosis) of TB, including pulmonary disease, extrapulmonary disease, and drug-resistant TB, undergoing treatment in an outpatient setting were included (6).
The Methods Manual for Community Guide Systematic Reviews provided a framework for data collection from retained articles (7).
Consistent with the evidence quality tools used in the published meta-analysis, retained articles were reviewed with the Revised Tool for Assessing Risk of Bias in Randomized Trials, the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Standards (2,6–9).
During May–September 2022, CDC reviewed the evidence and drafted recommendations.
These recommendations were reviewed favorably by external TB subject matter experts and were presented for public comment during the December 2022 Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis† meeting.
Comments supported the updated recommendations without further modifications.
Top Rationale and Evidence Literature Review.
Two systematic reviews that assessed technology interventions for TB treatment were identified (2,3).
The first review combined vDOT, text reminders, and medication monitoring boxes for comparison with in-person DOT (3); because of the combination of interventions assessed, this review was excluded.
The second review, a meta-analysis comparing vDOT with in-person DOT, assessed treatment adherence, treatment completion, and microbiologic resolution (2).
This published meta-analysis was used as supporting evidence and as the starting point for an updated literature search.
The updated literature search yielded five articles published after the meta-analysis, two of which were retained as supporting evidence (4,5).
Three articles were excluded for the following reasons: two did not include a comparison group (10,11), and one reported previously published data (12) included in the meta-analysis (2).
Top Evidence Summary Treatment Adherence.
The meta-analysis (2), one randomized controlled trial (RCT) (4), and one prospective observational study (5) examined the proportion of medication doses observed by TB program staff members (Table).
The meta-analysis defined treatment adherence as observation of ≥80% of prescribed doses.
The RCT and observational study defined adherence as the observed proportion of total prescribed doses.
The meta-analysis and observational study found higher adherence among patients on vDOT than among those receiving in-person DOT (78.8% versus 27.2%, and 68.4% versus 53.9%, respectively).
The observational study focused on doses taken Monday through Friday (5).
Per program practice, if a patient using vDOT missed a weekday dose and submitted additional videos on the weekend, these doses were included in the weekly adherence count.
The RCT found that vDOT was as effective as in-person DOT at achieving observed doses (89.8% versus 87.2%) (4).
Treatment Completion.
The meta-analysis (2) defined completion of treatment as not prematurely stopping treatment or being lost to follow-up.
The observational study (5) defined completion based on a set number of target doses (Table).
Treatment completion was similar among patients receiving vDOT and in-person DOT (79.0% versus 68.2%, respectively, in the meta-analysis, and 96% versus 90%, respectively, in the observational study).
The RCT did not evaluate treatment completion (4).
Microbiologic Resolution.
The meta-analysis (2) and observational study (5) reported results for microbiologic resolution, the principal prognostic indicator for TB treatment response.
The RCT did not evaluate microbiologic outcomes (4).
Meta-analysis results were based on radiography and negative sputum smear test results by the last month of treatment and on at least one previous occasion.
The observational study reported microbiologic resolution as the mean number of days to culture conversion (i.e., time between treatment start date and date of first negative culture result, after which no further positive culture results were obtained).
Microbiologic resolution was similar between patients receiving vDOT and in-person DOT (93.0% versus 87.8%, respectively, in the meta-analysis, and a mean of 48 days versus 47 days, respectively, to culture conversion in the observational study).
Top Updated Recommendation Missed doses of medication or treatment interruptions can lead to suboptimal drug concentrations, acquired drug resistance, longer treatment times, TB treatment failure, and recurrence of TB disease.
For these reasons, CDC continues to recommend DOT as the standard of care for all persons prescribed TB treatment; however, based on the evidence summary, this report updates the 2016 CDC U.S.
clinical practice guidelines (1) to state that vDOT should be considered equivalent to in-person DOT.
Top Considerations Decisions regarding the use of vDOT or in-person DOT during TB treatment are best made when health care providers and patients work in partnership to discuss the potential benefits and drawbacks of both DOT approaches.
Topics to address in shared decision-making discussions include the patient’s health care needs, social conditions, preferences, regular access to video-enabled devices and the Internet, insurance reimbursement (as applicable), confidentiality and privacy, as well as program capacities and provider preferences.
For patients receiving injectable medications, experiencing circumstances that they and their providers decide would benefit from additional monitoring, or who are unable to use vDOT technology, in-person DOT is likely the better treatment option.
Top Discussion This update of CDC recommendations is based on evidence that vDOT is associated with a higher proportion of medication doses being observed and similar rates of TB treatment completion and microbiologic resolution when compared with in-person DOT.
These data, combined with research that has demonstrated vDOT can conserve time and costs for patients and programs (13,14), improve patient satisfaction with DOT (14), and provide opportunities to monitor adherence when in-person DOT is not feasible (5), highlight the utility of vDOT to sustain patient care and treatment.
To date, few RCTs and cohort studies of vDOT have been conducted.
Studies have been heterogenous with respect to video type (synchronous versus asynchronous) and location of in-person DOT (clinic versus community).
In addition, published studies have been conducted in urban and suburban settings, with adults, and in locations with broad Internet availability.
Thus, additional evaluation of vDOT implementation in more diverse settings and with diverse populations will address evidence gaps and expand the current knowledge base.
Moreover, technology has evolved rapidly during the past decade, and this evolution will likely continue, adding to the evidence and further guiding best practices for the use of vDOT to support patients in their treatment adherence.
CDC will continue to monitor relevant reports and update this guidance as necessary.
Top Acknowledgments Jamie Benoit, Brenda Montoya Denison, Sylvia Dziemian, Elizabeth Foy, Mary Green, Ramnath Subbaraman, Tina Throop, Tenzin Yangzom.
Top Corresponding author: Joan M.
Mangan, bpy4@cdc.gov.
Top 1Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top *  †  Top References Nahid P, Dorman SE, Alipanah N, Barry PM.
Official American Thoracic Society/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Infectious Diseases Society of America clinical practice guidelines: treatment of drug-susceptible tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2016;63:e147–95.
 PMID:27516382 Truong CB, Tanni KA, Qian J.
Video-observed therapy versus directly observed therapy in patients with tuberculosis.
Am J Prev Med 2022;62:450–8.
 PMID:34916094 Ridho A, Alfian SD, van Boven JFM, et al.
Digital health technologies to improve medication adherence and treatment outcomes in patients with tuberculosis: systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
J Med Internet Res 2022;24:e33062.
 PMID:35195534 Burzynski J, Mangan JM, Lam CK, et al.; eDOT Study Team.
In-person vs electronic directly observed therapy for tuberculosis treatment adherence: a randomized noninferiority trial.
JAMA Netw Open 2022;5:e2144210.
 PMID:35050357 Perry A, Chitnis A, Chin A, et al.
Real-world implementation of video-observed therapy in an urban TB program in the United States.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2021;25:655–61.
 PMID:34330351 Zaza S, Wright-De Agüero LK, Briss PA, et al.; Task Force on Community Preventive Services.
Data collection instrument and procedure for systematic reviews in the Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Am J Prev Med 2000;18(Suppl 1):44–74.
 PMID:10806979 Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Methods manual for Community Guide systematic reviews.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2021.
 Sterne JAC, Savović J, Page MJ, et al.
RoB 2: a revised tool for assessing risk of bias in randomised trials.
BMJ 2019;366:l4898.
 PMID:31462531 Wells G, Shea B, O’Connell D, et al.
The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for assessing the quality of nonrandomised studies in meta-analyses.
Ottawa, Canada: The Ottawa Hospital; 2020.
 Kumwichar P, Chongsuvivatwong V, Prappre T.
Development of a video-observed therapy system to improve monitoring of tuberculosis treatment in Thailand: mixed-methods study.
JMIR Form Res 2021;5:e29463.
 PMID:34313602 Peinado J, Tamaki J, Yataco R, et al.
Video supervised treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in a health care center in Lima.
Rev Méd Hered 2022;33:9–14.
 Doltu S, Ciobanu A, Sereda Y, et al.
Short and long-term outcomes of video observed treatment in tuberculosis patients, the Republic of Moldova.
J Infect Dev Ctries 2021;15:17S–24S.
 PMID:34609956 Beeler Asay GR, Lam CK, Stewart B, et al.
Cost of tuberculosis therapy directly observed on video for health departments and patients in New York City; San Francisco, California; and Rhode Island (2017–2018).
Am J Public Health 2020;110:1696–703.
 PMID:32941064 Garfein RS, Doshi RP.
Synchronous and asynchronous video observed therapy (VOT) for tuberculosis treatment adherence monitoring and support.
J Clin Tuberc Other Mycobact Dis 2019;17:100098.
 PMID:31867442 Top TABLE.
*  †  § Study focused on doses taken Monday through Friday.
Per program practice, if a patient using vDOT missed a weekday dose and submitted additional videos on the weekend, these were included in counts to confirm adherence for 5 of 7 days of the week.
CDC notes this approach to quantifying treatment adherence could potentially bias results in favor of vDOT.
¶ This study did not evaluate treatment completion or microbiologic resolution.
 ** Results from the MITT analysis.
Empirical, per-protocol, and per-protocol 85% analyses were also conducted and had noninferiority results consistent with those from the MITT analysis.
†† Calculated by subtracting the percentage of completed doses observed with electronic DOT from the percentage with in-person DOT.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Mangan JM, Woodruff RS, Winston CA, et al.
Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:313–316.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
NEEMA EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About NEEMA NEEMA Abstracts NEEMA Published Papers NEEMA Success Stories NEEMA Meetings NEEMA Web Tools VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All FEBRUARY 15, 2024 NEEMA Funded Projects - Tuberculosis AT A GLANCE The National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention's Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA) supports projects that address priority diseases and populations.
NEEMA funds projects that focus on tuberculosis (TB)-related outcomes and populations.
NEEMA 2.0 (2019-2024) Impact of targeted testing and treatment for tuberculosis (TB) among Asian and Hispanic persons with diabetes From 2011 to 2020, Asian and Hispanic Americans comprised 34.7% and 28.8% of tuberculosis (TB) cases in the United States, respectively.
Both populations are at an elevated risk of diabetes when compared to non-Hispanic White Americans.
Diabetes has been shown to elevate the risk of developing tuberculosis disease among those with latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI).
Employing a TTT intervention for LTBI among Asian and Hispanic Americans with diabetes may have the potential to reduce tuberculosis disease in the United States.
This project uses a transmission-dynamic model of tuberculosis in the United States to estimate the impact of TTT among Asian and Hispanic Americans with diabetes at the national level.
Modeling the TB consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has likely had wide-ranging impact on different determinants of tuberculosis outcomes in the United States.
Understanding the different pathways impacted, the relative magnitude, and implications for tuberculosis control strategies is important for continuing progress toward tuberculosis elimination.
This project will estimate changes in different epidemiological drivers (immigration, case detection, transmission, competing mortality) in the United States that occurred during 2020 and 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the impact of these changes on tuberculosis epidemiology and outcomes over the following 15 years, quantified as tuberculosis incidence and tuberculosis-associated mortality in the United States.
Trends in TB incidence and reactivation of latent TB infection (LTBI) in the elderly U.S.-born population Trends in tuberculosis incidence among the elderly are of programmatic and scientific interest.
Much of the older U.S.
population has had greater exposure to tuberculosis infection and has a higher prevalence of LTBI compared to younger populations.
Tuberculosis incidence rates are also known to be higher in the elderly.
It has been hypothesized that the risks of progression to tuberculosis from prior LTBI increase with older age, due to either immunosenescence or incidence of known medical risks, such as diabetes or cancer, arising later in life.
Only a small percentage of tuberculosis cases in older cohorts are thought to be due to recent infection.
This analysis will investigate trends in tuberculosis incidence and reactivation of LTBI among U.S.-born persons aged 50 years and older in the United States.
Specifically, the analysis will describe how tuberculosis incidence rates within the older cohort changed from 1993 to 2018, and how trends in earlier birth cohorts compare with those of later birth cohorts.
Estimating rates of LTBI reactivation by population More than 80% of tuberculosis cases in the United States result from reactivation of LTBI.
For this reason, identifying and treating individuals with LTBI is a primary focus of tuberculosis prevention.
Evidence suggests that LTBI reactivation rates vary by age and time since infection, as well as the presence of risk factors associated with minor (e.g., smoking, diabetes, under-nutrition) or major (e.g., advanced HIV, end-stage renal disease) immune suppression.
Estimates of current and future LTBI reactivation rates among at-risk populations are critical inputs for cost-effectiveness analyses of LTBI testing and treatment as these rates determine the cumulative tuberculosis risk that can be averted by such interventions.
Reactivation rates are also important inputs for analyses investigating the current status and future course of population-level tuberculosis epidemiology.
Despite their importance, reactivation rate estimates for different population groups are either unavailable or are relatively uncertain.
This analysis will use a Bayesian evidence synthesis to estimate the distribution of likely reactivation rates for key populations at increased risk for tuberculosis.
Furthermore, these rates will be projected to estimate cumulative lifetime reactivation risks.
Tool for estimating intervention costs and averted TB and LTBI Information on the costs and health outcomes of tuberculosis services, such as testing and treatment for LTBI to prevent tuberculosis progression, is important for national, state, and local tuberculosis decision-making.
Knowing the potential epidemiologic and economic impact of tuberculosis services, including across populations at risk, allows agencies to allocate resources to maximize health impact and to target interventions across risk populations.
Locally tailored evidence on the short- and long-term costs of tuberculosis and LTBI, as well as interventions to address these conditions, would also help local areas communicate to local officials, media, and community members the importance of tuberculosis prevention and the funding required to effectively address the burden of tuberculosis and LTBI.
This work will extend the functionality of the existing user-friendly tool, Tabby2, by providing locally tailored results for all 50 states and the District of Columbia and by broadening the functionality of the tool to report future costs and cost-savings associated with tuberculosis and tuberculosis interventions.
Description of large TB outbreaks in the U.S.
While tuberculosis transmission rates have declined nationally in the United States during the last two decades—owing largely to tuberculosis control efforts—responding to tuberculosis outbreaks (which often occur among people experiencing homelessness or incarceration) to prevent further transmission, remains an important priority for tuberculosis control.
This project will collaborate closely with the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) and state-level tuberculosis controllers to develop tuberculosis outbreak models in the U.S.
These proposed models will focus on large tuberculosis outbreaks and aim to estimate the epidemiological impact and cost-effectiveness of tuberculosis outbreak response in the U.S.
Impact of interventions to reduce TB transmission and outbreaks in disproportionately affected populations Tuberculosis transmission in the United States is both heterogeneous, with a few cases contributing to a large proportion of recent transmission, and disproportionately burdensome to disadvantaged populations—including racial and ethnic minorities, as well as people experiencing homelessness, who are incarcerated, and who use drugs (injection and non-injection).
Public health efforts to reduce tuberculosis transmission have been instrumental in lowering incidence in the U.S.
in the last few decades, but these interventions can be resource intensive.
This project aims to better understand tuberculosis genotype clusters in the United States and across four key states (CA, FL, NY, TX) in order to identify targeted interventions that are feasible to implement, might be prioritized by tuberculosis controllers and other health officials, and are likely to be impactful in reducing the risk of tuberculosis transmission and outbreaks, especially in disproportionately affected populations.
COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment to inform TB elimination efforts The United States observed a sharp decline in tuberculosis incidence in 2020.
Declines were pervasive, observed across almost all states, all age strata, both U.S.- and non-U.S.-born populations, and across all subpopulations disaggregated by race or ethnicity.
The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in drastic changes that would be expected to result in short-term declines in tuberculosis notifications – but the implications for tuberculosis control differ tremendously, providing a unique opportunity to better understand how to control tuberculosis in the longer term, irrespective of the pandemic itself.
This project will expand a previously developed model-based framework to include mechanisms of change in tuberculosis transmission and epidemiology as a result of COVID-19-related disruptions.
Using this updated model, the project aims to offer a better understanding of tuberculosis transmission and notification patterns following COVID-19 disruptions in Calif., Fla.
N.Y., and Texas, and to project changes in tuberculosis trends over the next 20 years in these four target states.
Domestic and global approaches for U.S.
TB elimination The majority of tuberculosis cases in the United States arise in the non-U.S.-born population, and many of these tuberculosis cases are due to infections acquired abroad.
Rising tuberculosis among non-U.S.-born individuals has slowed the rate of decline in overall U.S.
Tuberculosis incidence, and there is concern that trends in non-U.S.-born tuberculosis will impede efforts to achieve long-term tuberculosis elimination goals for the United States.
Past studies have demonstrated that: (a) strengthening domestic tuberculosis prevention activities (in particular, expanded access to targeted testing and treatment for LTBI) can substantially decelerate the rate of tuberculosis incidence in the U.S., in addition to providing important individual health benefits; and (b) that improved global tuberculosis control, particularly among the countries that represent a large share of U.S.
tuberculosis cases, can also lead to substantial reductions in future U.S.
tuberculosis cases.
These prior analyses investigated separate mechanisms for accelerating declines in tuberculosis cases in the United States, raising the prospect that coordinated action on both fronts—that is, improvements in global tuberculosis control paired with improvements in domestic tuberculosis prevention—may allow the U.S.
to achieve tuberculosis elimination goals over a shorter duration than presumed by earlier analyses.
This project aims to analyze the combination of strengthened domestic and international tuberculosis control activities, and what this would mean for future tuberculosis case trends in the United States.
Quantifying the health and economic burden of long-term sequelae among TB survivors Many individuals who survive tuberculosis disease experience extended morbidity, and observational studies have estimated substantially higher all-cause mortality rates among post-tuberculosis individuals compared to their matched controls.
However, there is less U.S.-based evidence on the economic effects of tuberculosis during and after the disease episode.
Estimating the causal impact of tuberculosis on long-term outcomes is challenging, as individuals who develop tuberculosis have a higher prevalence of other risk factors for mortality and ill health that are not causally attributable to tuberculosis.
Therefore, naïve comparisons of tuberculosis survivors with tuberculosis-free controls can overestimate the health risks due to tuberculosis.
Nevertheless, available evidence suggests these health risks are substantial.
This project will summarize evidence quantifying the causal effect of tuberculosis on health care utilization, morbidity, and mortality of tuberculosis patients after their initial diagnosis, including taking account of comorbid conditions.
Estimating the Medicare population eligible for targeted LTBI testing and treatment In 2020, the population enrolled in Medicare (Part A and or B) was 62.8 million, of which 54.5 million were eligible due to being aged 65 or over.
This older population represents 17% of the U.S.
general population and includes individuals with higher average LTBI prevalence (when compared to the general population due to greater lifetime exposure) and elevated tuberculosis incidence rates (when compared to younger age groups).
Expanding access to LTBI testing and treatment with no cost sharing for the Medicare population could identify and treat persons living with LTBI and reduce tuberculosis incidence rates in this population.
Doing so could accelerate declines in tuberculosis incidence within the U.S.
and prevent tuberculosis disease in a group with higher tuberculosis case fatality rates.
This project will support and inform the testing and treatment needs for LTBI among the Medicare population and will also add to the literature on the benefits of LTBI treatment by age, as there are currently no/few estimates of the impact of testing and treating by age group.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE NEEMA CDC improves the effectiveness of public health programs through the NCHHSTP Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA) program.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Progress Toward Tuberculosis Elimination and Tuberculosis Program Performance — National Tuberculosis Indicators Project, 2016–2022 Surveillance Summaries / June 6, 2024 / 73(4);1–18 Print Rachel Woodruff, MPH1; Robert Pratt1; Maureen Kolasa, MPH1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Article Metrics Altmetric: News (1) X (14) Facebook (2) Mendeley (17) 2 2 Total citations 2 Recent citations n/a Field Citation Ratio n/a Relative Citation Ratio On This Page Introduction Methods Results Discussion Limitations Future Direction Conclusion Box Figure Tables Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 Table 4 Table 5 Related Materials Article PDF Abstract Problem/Condition: Elimination of tuberculosis (TB) is defined as reducing TB disease incidence in the United States to less than 1 case per million persons per year.
In 2022, TB incidence in the United States was 2.5 TB cases per 100,000 persons.
CDC’s TB program developed a set of national TB indicators to evaluate progress toward TB elimination through monitoring performance of state and city TB program activities.
Examining TB indicator data enables state- and city-level TB programs to identify areas for program evaluation and improvement activities.
These data also help CDC identify states and cities that might benefit from technical assistance.
Period Covered: The 5-year period for which the most recent data were available for each of five indicators: 1) overall TB incidence (2018–2022), 2) TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons (2018–2022), 3) percentage of persons with drug susceptibility results reported (2018–2022), 4) percentage of contacts to sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB patients with newly diagnosed latent TB infection (LTBI) who completed treatment (2017–2021), and 5) percentage of patients with completion of TB therapy within 12 months (2016–2020).
Description of System: The National TB Indicators Project (NTIP) is a web-based performance monitoring tool that uses national TB surveillance data reported through the National TB Surveillance System and the Aggregate Reports for TB Program Evaluation.
NTIP was developed to facilitate the use of existing data to help TB program staff members prioritize activities, monitor progress, and focus program improvement efforts.
The following five indicators were selected for this report because of their importance in Federal TB funding allocation and in accelerating the decline in TB cases: 1) overall TB incidence in the United States, 2) TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons, 3) percentage of persons with drug susceptibility results reported, 4) percentage of contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB cases who completed treatment for LTBI, and 5) percentage of patients with completion of TB therapy within 12 months.
For this report, 52 TB programs (50 states, the District of Columbia, and New York City) were categorized into terciles based on the 5-year average number of TB cases reported to National TB Surveillance System.
This grouping allows comparison of TB programs that have similar numbers of TB cases and allocates a similar number of TB programs to each category.
Results: During the 5-year period for which the most recent data were available, most TB programs had improvements in reducing overall TB incidence (71.2%) and increasing the percentage of contacts receiving a diagnosis of LTBI who completed LTBI treatment (55.8%); the majority of programs (51.0%) also had improvements in reducing incidence among non–U.S.-born persons.
The percentage of contacts to sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB patients with newly diagnosed latent TB infection (LTBI) who completed treatment increased in 29 of 52 (55.8%) jurisdictions from 2017 to 2021, signifying that, for most jurisdictions, steps have been taken to enhance performance in this area.
Interpretation: This report is the first to describe a 5-year relative change for TB program performance.
These results suggest that TB programs are making improvements in activities that help identify persons with TB and LTBI and ensure patients complete treatment in a timely manner.
Public Health Action: Use of NTIP data from individual TB programs enables a more detailed examination of trends in program performance and identification of areas for program improvement.
Assessing indicator trends by TB program provides an opportunity to gain a better understanding of program performance in comparison to other programs.
It can also facilitate communication between programs regarding successes and challenges in program improvement.
This information is valuable for TB programs to allocate resources effectively and provide additional context on TB control for public health policymakers.
Top Introduction Using data to monitor tuberculosis (TB) program performance can provide insights into program functioning and allow for the timely recognition of successes and areas for improvement (1,2).
Monitoring and evaluating TB program activities involves a combination of objectives, indicators, and performance targets that allow for continuous tracking of program progress and performance monitoring.
Performance indicators are specific, measurable criteria that are chosen based on national TB program objectives and are used to quantitatively assess progress and outcomes (2–4).
Each national TB program indicator has an associated performance target.
Together, these tools help programs assess the effectiveness of TB control activities and identify areas for improvement, thus improving TB patient outcomes (5,6).
CDC, in collaboration with internal and external partners, developed a set of national TB objectives, associated indicators, and performance targets to evaluate progress toward TB elimination by monitoring the performance of state and city TB program activities (7,8).
The national TB indicators are available to TB programs through the National TB Indicators Project (NTIP) application (8).
CDC publishes annual TB surveillance reports (9), which presents national data over time and jurisdiction data for a single year, and state and city TB report (10), which display TB indicator data at a single point at the state and city levels.
Neither of these reports provide trend data at the state, city, or local level.
The findings in this report can be used by state and city TB programs to assess their TB control efforts and identify areas for improvement.
Top Methods To provide programs with a resource to evaluate their performance over time, CDC summarized NTIP data for five key indicators: 1) overall TB incidence in the United States, 2) TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons, 3) percentage of persons with drug susceptibility results reported, 4) percentage of contacts to sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB patients who received a new diagnosis of latent TB infection (LTBI) and who completed LTBI treatment (among those who started LTBI treatment), and 5) percentage of patients with completion of TB therapy within 12 months (among those who are eligible to complete within 12 months) (9).
These indicators are included in a formula to determine the amount of funding provided to TB programs as part of the CDC TB Cooperative Agreement for the prevention and control of TB (11).
Data Sources and Collection NTIP is a web-based performance-monitoring tool that uses routine data reported to the National TB Surveillance System (NTSS) and the Aggregate Reports for Program Evaluation (ARPE).
NTIP was developed to facilitate the use of NTSS data to measure national TB program objectives, indicators, and performance targets, which can help TB programs prioritize activities, monitor progress, and focus program improvement efforts.
TB programs have access to their own specific data and national aggregate data in NTIP.
However, they are unable to access performance data from other TB programs.
As a result, they can only compare their program’s performance trends with national averages.The ability to compare performance among TB programs that report similar numbers of TB cases could be more useful in identifying areas for improvement.
All 50 U.S.
states, the District of Columbia, and New York City report each new case of TB to NTSS via the Report of Verified Case of TB (9).
territories and freely associated states also report TB data to NTSS, but these data are not included in this report.
Performance measures (rates and percentages) associated with TB incidence in the United States, TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons, completion of TB therapy within 12 months, and drug susceptibility test results are calculated using NTSS data.
ARPE is a data collection system through which TB programs report information about persons who received a new diagnosis of TB disease or LTBI.
ARPE information is submitted through NTIP using a standardized form (12,13).
ARPE data are used to calculate the percentage of contacts who received a new diagnosis of LTBI and completed treatment.
The 52 TB programs included in this report correspond to distinct geographic jurisdictions.
For the purposes of this report, the term jurisdiction will be used to describe results related to both the TB program and its corresponding geographic area.
National TB Indicators and Performance Targets The cohort for each national TB indicator is defined as the number of persons reported in the year of interest who are eligible to meet the performance objective for the indicator.
For each indicator, inclusion and exclusion criteria are defined for the cohort.
National performance targets for these indicators are calculated approximately every 5 years on the basis of historical TB program performance for each indicator (14) (Box).
The following indicators were selected for this report because of their importance in Federal TB funding allocation and in intensifying efforts to reduce TB incidence: TB incidence in the United States: number of new TB cases per 100,000 persons per year TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons: number of TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons per 100,000 non–U.S.-born persons per year Drug susceptibility test results: percentage of persons with TB disease with a positive culture result who had initial drug-susceptibility results reported Contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB patients who received a new diagnosis of LTBI who completed treatment: percentage of contacts to persons with sputum AFB smear-positive TB who received a diagnosis of LTBI and who completed treatment among those patients who started treatment Completion of TB therapy within 12 months: percentage of patients who received a new diagnosis of TB disease for whom treatment completion within 12 months is indicated and who completed treatment within 12 months (366 days) Analysis Descriptive analyses were performed for the five selected indicators for each of the 52 jurisdictions in the United States.
For this report, jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available for the analyzed variables.
This grouping allowed comparison of jurisdictions with similar numbers of TB cases and allocated an equivalent number of jurisdictions to each category.
The 5-year reporting period was 2018–2022 for overall TB incidence, TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons, and persons with drug susceptibility results reported.
For contacts who received a new diagnosis of LTBI who completed LTBI treatment, the 5-year reporting period was 2017–2021 because of different reporting deadlines associated with data from NTSS and ARPE.
TB therapy can take up to 2 years to complete; therefore, 2016–2020 was the 5-year period for completion of TB therapy within 12 months.
The average percentage for each indicator over the 5-year period was calculated using the formula (% from Year 1 + % from Year 2 + % from Year 3 + % from Year 4 + % from Year 5) ÷ 5.
For indicators based on incidence, the calculations used incidence rather than percentage for each year.
The national average was calculated for each indicator (i.e., sum of average percentage or incidence over the 5-year period for all jurisdictions ÷ total number of jurisdictions).
Data in the tables are displayed by improved relative change to allow TB programs to assess how they rank in relation to other jurisdictions with similar numbers of reported TB cases.
Overall TB incidence and TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons were calculated using 2015–2019 annual population estimates (the latest population data available) from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (15).
Top Results For 2018–2022, the terciles for overall TB incidence, TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons, and percentage of persons with drug susceptibility results reported were jurisdictions with 1–50 TB cases (T1), 51–126 TB cases (T2), and 127 or more TB cases (T3) (Tables 1, 2 and 3).
For 2017–2021, the terciles for the percentage of contacts with newly diagnosed LTBI who completed treatment were jurisdictions with 1–49 TB cases (T1), 50–130 TB cases (T2), or ≥131 TB cases (T3) (Table 4).
For 2016–2020, the terciles for the percentage of patients with completion of TB therapy within 12 months were jurisdictions with 1–46 TB cases (T1), 47–130 TB cases (T2), or 131 or more TB cases (T3) (Table 5).
TB Incidence in the United States The incidence of TB decreased in 37 of the 52 (71.2%) jurisdictions from 2018 to 2022 (Table 1).
The national 5-year average incidence of TB was 2.5 cases per 100,000 persons.
Overall, 15 (28.9%) jurisdictions had a 5-year average incidence that was at or below the national performance target of 1.3 (Figure); 28 jurisdictions (53.9%) had a 5-year average incidence that was at or below the national average of 2.5 but higher than 1.3.
Programs in these 28 jurisdictions have not yet met the national performance target.
Although almost all jurisdictions in T1 had incidences that were below the national average or performance target, these jurisdictions also had the largest range in relative change in TB incidence for the 5-year period (−56.3% to 85.7%), an indication of the instability of data for jurisdictions with few TB cases; small changes in case counts can result in large percentage changes.
In comparison, relative change ranged from −31.7% to 51.8% among jurisdictions in T2 and −26.0% to 28.6% in T3.
TB Incidence Among Non–U.S.-Born Persons Overall, eight of 51 (15.7%) jurisdictions (one state did not report any TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons during the 5-year period) had a 5-year average incidence that was at or below the national performance target of 8.8 cases per 100,000 non–U.S.-born persons (Figure); four of these eight jurisdictions were in T1 (Table 2).
The incidence of TB among non–U.S.-born persons decreased in 26 of 51 (51.0%) jurisdictions from 2018 to 2022 (Table 2).
Among jurisdictions in T3, eight of 17 (47.1%) had an average 5-year incidence at or below the national average of 13.1 compared with six of 18 (33.3%) in T2 and nine of 16 (56.3%) in T1.
As with overall TB incidence, the largest range in relative change in TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons from 2018 to 2022 occurred among jurisdictions in T1(−57.3% to 350.9%) compared with jurisdictions in T2 (−38.1% to 136.5%) and T3 (−33.0% to 21.8%).
The 5-year average percentage could not be calculated for one jurisdiction in T1 because no cases with positive culture results were reported in 2020; therefore, no persons with diagnosed TB disease were eligible to be included in the indicator cohort for that year.
The 2025 national performance target of 100% has been met in six jurisdictions, all of which were in T1; no jurisdictions in the other two categories met the 2025 national performance target.
Although half of the jurisdictions met or exceeded the national average for initial drug susceptibility results reported, only 12 of 52 (23.1%) had an increase in relative change from 2018 to 2022.
In addition, 12 of 52 (23.1%) jurisdictions had no relative change in performance from 2018 to 2022; six of the 12 (50.0%) had a 5-year average performance that had already met the 2025 national performance target for reporting initial drug susceptibility test results.
Contacts to Sputum AFB Smear-Positive TB Patients with a New Diagnosis of LTBI Who Completed Treatment The relative change in the percentage of contacts who received a new diagnosis of LTBI who completed treatment increased in 29 of 52 (55.8%) jurisdictions from 2017 to 2021, signifying that, for most jurisdictions, steps have been taken to enhance performance for this indicator (Table 4).
However, only two jurisdictions have met or exceeded the 2025 national performance target of 93%.
Although the range of relative change in 5-year average performance was highest among jurisdictions in T1 (3,603.7% to −100.0%), these results are unreliable because of multiple jurisdictions with missing or incomplete contact investigation data (or incomplete data reporting), no contact investigation done, or no contacts receiving a diagnosis of LTBI.
In contrast, jurisdictions in T2 and T3 had similar ranges in relative change (73.8% to −18.2% and 54.3% to −42.0%, respectively).
This observation reinforces the importance of complete and accurate data collection and reporting for a better assessment of LTBI treatment outcomes.
The percentage of jurisdictions with performance above the national average varied substantially between terciles: 11 of 17 (64.7%) in T3, 14 of 18 (77.8%) in T2, and seven of 17 (41.2%) in T1.
Furthermore, 20 of the 52 jurisdictions (38.5%) had an increase in the percentage of patients completing therapy within 12 months from 2016 to 2020; this percentage is the second lowest performance improvement result among the indicators presented in this report (Figure).
Jurisdictions in T1 had a slightly lower performance, with four of 17 (23.5%) jurisdictions with increased performance over the 5-year period.
These results indicate that jurisdictions with a higher number of cases demonstrated more improvement for completion of treatment than jurisdictions with fewer cases.
Only one jurisdiction had 5-year average performance that met or exceeded the 2025 national performance target of 99% of patients completing TB therapy within 12 months.
This jurisdiction (Wyoming) reported an average of one TB case per year over the 5-year period; therefore, comparing the performance of Wyoming with the performance in most other jurisdictions might not be useful.
Jurisdictions in T1 had the largest range of relative change in 5-year average performance (7.0% to − 66.7%).
Jurisdictions in T2 and T3 had similar ranges of relative change (19.5% to −13.9% and 13.2% to −18.4%, respectively).
Top Discussion During 2018–2022, most TB programs had improvements in reducing overall TB incidence, and approximately half of programs had improvements in reducing incidence among non–U.S.-born persons.
In addition, from 2017 to 2021, most programs increased the percentage of contacts receiving a diagnosis of LTBI who completed treatment.
These results suggest that TB programs continue to strengthen activities that help identify persons with TB disease and LTBI and ensure they complete treatment in a timely manner (16).
Improvements in reducing TB incidence do not correlate with improved performance across all indicators.
Although a lower percentage of TB programs indicated improvement for initial drug susceptibility test results reported, this observation is partly because of the number of TB programs that had no relative change for this indicator because the programs were at 100% for the first and last year of the 5-year period, indicating a high level of performance overall.
TB programs are making progress in reducing TB incidence among non–U.S.-born persons; however, country of birth remains the most important risk factor for TB (17), emphasizing the need for ongoing efforts to reduce incidence of TB among non–U.S.-born persons.
Furthermore, reactivation of LTBI is the most common cause of development of TB among non−U.S.-born persons.
As a result, the diagnosis and treatment of LTBI play a vital role in TB elimination (17).
Although this report provides insight into program performance for completion of therapy among contacts who received a diagnosis of LTBI, TB programs would benefit from additional information (e.g., treatment status and country of birth) about all persons diagnosed with LTBI, not just newly diagnosed contacts.
The low percentage of TB programs indicating improved performance for completion of therapy within 12 months from 2016 to 2020 might be attributed to multiple factors.
First, TB treatment is a long and often resource-intensive process that can be affected by various factors (e.g., drug resistance, comorbidities, and socioeconomic factors) (18).
Persons with more complicated TB cases, including drug resistance, drug intolerance, severe disease, or other concurrent illnesses or conditions, might require longer and more complex treatment regimens.
As a result, the presence of a substantial number of such cases within TB programs might have contributed to the lower overall percentage of improvement.
Second, the 5-year reporting period for completion of therapy in this report overlaps with the COVID-19 pandemic, which impacted TB diagnosis and management in a wide range of ways.
The implementation of social distancing measures, quarantine protocols, and the diversion of health care resources to manage COVID-19 cases were experienced by most TB programs (19).
These disruptions might have affected the ability of staff members in certain TB programs to implement directly observed therapy, which is the standard of care to ensure treatment completion (18).
This performance is likely because of small absolute changes associated with a lower number of TB cases leading to larger percentage changes.
The results presented in this report use the 2025 national performance targets as a measure of TB program effectiveness.
Although certain TB programs have already achieved the 2025 performance target for specific indicators, these targets are designed to be aspirational and are not mandatory benchmarks for all TB programs (14).
The targets should be interpreted as long-term objectives and should be used alongside other metrics (e.g., the national average) to provide a more comprehensive assessment of TB program performance.
Although this report provides a comparison of TB program performance on these five indicators, the report is not intended to penalize or negatively affect any TB programs or staff members or be used in a competitive manner.
Rather, TB programs can use this report to monitor progress of TB prevention and control activities and determine where improvements can be made.
Because this is the only report that allows TB programs to review the trend performance of other programs, it can provide context for where to focus improvement efforts based on successes of other TB programs or, conversely, for TB programs to understand where they have been successful compared with other programs.
In addition, this report can facilitate communication between TB programs and generate ideas for sharing and learning in regional or national meetings, conferences, and trainings.
Top Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least five limitations.
First, TB program performance involves programmatic and contextual factors (e.g., population demographics and complexity of TB cases) that are not measured by indicator data.
Second, TB programs vary in size and resources and, although these differences were accounted for by grouping based on the number of TB cases reported, the variability of case counts within each group is still large; therefore, not all TB programs within each group are comparable.
Third, other ways exist to assess TB programs with similar characteristics (e.g., by age, race, or other demographic characteristics of persons with TB disease; by the cohort or denominator of persons who meet specific indicator criteria; or by geography) and differences that affect program performance are not only based on the number of persons with TB in the associated jurisdiction.
However, this study does not examine alternative methods for grouping TB programs.
Fourth, the relative change calculation is subject to the first and last year of the 5-year period and does not account for variability within that period.
Finally, for TB programs that report few cases, a small absolute change can lead to a large percentage change that can be misleading and difficult to interpret.
Therefore, results for TB programs with 1–50 cases should be interpreted with caution.
Top Future Direction To sustain progress toward TB elimination, maintaining strong evaluation and performance monitoring systems is important.
Continued support for NTIP and regular assessment and improvement of indicators are essential to adapt to evolving TB trends and challenges.
In addition, TB programs might benefit from a greater exchange of information and best practices, enabling them to learn from each other’s successes and challenges.
Data from NTIP can also play an important role in resource allocation and garnering support for TB control; TB programs can use this information to guide public health policy decisions at both the state and Federal levels.
Finally, implementing comprehensive LTBI surveillance that includes data on the country of birth would enable establishment of specific objectives, performance indicators, and targets stratified by U.S.-born and non–U.S.-born persons.
This approach would provide TB programs with the means to effectively monitor performance in diagnosing and treating persons with LTBI.
Top Conclusion The findings in this report indicate that most TB programs have indicated improvement in reducing TB incidence and increasing the percentage of contacts with LTBI who complete treatment.
These activities are critical in preventing the spread of TB.
Continuous monitoring and evaluation, along with subsequent programmatic actions aimed at enhancing performance in identified areas, will be essential for improving strategies to decrease the incidence of TB.
Top Corresponding author: Rachel Woodruff, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Telephone: 404-639-6018; Email: zex5@cdc.gov.
Top 1Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC Top Conflicts of Interest All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top References Heffernan C, Long R.
Would program performance indicators and a nationally coordinated response accelerate the elimination of tuberculosis in Canada?
Can J Public Health 2019;110:31–5.
 PMID:30014186 Phillips VL, Teweldemedhin B, Ahmedov S, Cobb J, McNabb SJ.
Evaluation of program performance and expenditures in a report of performance measures (RPM) via a case study of two Florida county tuberculosis programs.
Eval Program Plann 2010;33:373–8.
 PMID:20138366 Lee B, Park S-Y.
Developing key performance indicators for guaranteeing right to health and access to medical service for persons with disabilities in Korea: using a modified Delphi.
PLoS One 2018;13:e0208651.
 PMID:30532250 Flowers J, Hall P, Pencheon D.
Public health indicators.
Public Health 2005;119:239–45.
 PMID:15733682 Chen HT, Morosanu L, Powell-Threets K, Lian B, Turner N.
Assessment of the monitoring and evaluation system of a population-based program: theory-driven evaluation approach.
Eval Program Plann 2019;77:101719.
 PMID:31541904 Cass A, Shaw T, Ehman M, Young J, Flood J, Royce S.
Improved outcomes found after implementing a systematic evaluation and program improvement process for tuberculosis.
Public Health Rep 2013;128:367–76.
 PMID:23997283 CDC.
National TB program objectives and performance targets for 2025.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2022.
 CDC.
Monitoring tuberculosis programs—National Tuberculosis Indicator Project, United States, 2002–2008.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2010;59:295–8.
PMID:20300056 CDC.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2023.
 CDC.
2021 State and city TB report.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2022.
 CDC.
PS20–2001 NOFO funding estimator: CDC tuberculosis (TB) cooperative agreement, 2020–2024 awardee fiscal year (FY) 2020 funding estimator.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2019.
 CDC.
Aggregate reports for tuberculosis program evaluation (ARPE).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2023.
 CDC.
2020 Contact investigations report (ARPE data).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2022.
 CDC.
National TB performance targets.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2022.
 Census Bureau.
American Community Survey (ACS): accessing PUMS data.
Washington, DC: US Department of Commerce, Census Bureau; 2022.
 Lobato MN, Wang YC, Becerra JE, Simone PM, Castro KG.
Improved program activities are associated with decreasing tuberculosis incidence in the United States.
Public Health Rep 2006;121:108–15.
 PMID:16528941 Langer AJ, Navin TR, Winston CA, LoBue P.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis in the United States.
Clin Chest Med 2019;40:693–702.
 PMID:31731978 Nahid P, Dorman SE, Alipanah N, et al.
Official American Thoracic Society/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Infectious Diseases Society of America clinical practice guidelines: treatment of drug-susceptible tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2016;63:e147–95.
 PMID:27516382 Cronin AM, Railey S, Fortune D, Wegener DH, Davis JB.
Effects of the COVID-19 response on tuberculosis prevention and control efforts—United States, March–April 2020.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:971–2.
 PMID:32701944 Top BOX.
Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Included in results.
Top TABLE 1.
Overall tuberculosis incidence,* by jurisdiction and reporting year — United States, 2018–2022†,§ Jurisdiction¶,** 5-year annual average number of cases†† 2018 incidence* 2019 incidence* 2020 incidence* 2021 incidence* 2022 incidence* 5-year annual average incidence*,§§ Relative change in incidence* from 2018 to 2022 (%)¶¶ 5-year average of ≥127 cases Maryland 183 3.4 3.5 2.5 3.1 2.5 3.0 −26.0 Minnesota 141 3.1 2.6 2.1 2.3 2.3 2.5 −24.5 Massachusetts 165 2.9 2.6 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.4 −24.4 Pennsylvania 181 1.7 1.5 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.4 −19.4 Ohio 151 1.5 1.3 1.1 1.3 1.2 1.3 −18.6 North Carolina 176 1.9 1.8 1.5 1.7 1.5 1.7 −18.2 Arizona 156 2.5 2.5 1.9 1.8 2.1 2.1 −14.7 Florida 519 2.8 2.6 1.9 2.3 2.5 2.4 −11.5 California 1,901 5.3 5.3 4.3 4.5 4.7 4.8 −11.1 New York 174 1.7 1.7 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.6 −8.6 Illinois 283 2.5 2.6 1.7 2.0 2.4 2.2 −6.1 Virginia 184 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.9 2.3 2.1 −5.8 Georgia 255 2.6 2.8 2.1 2.1 2.4 2.4 −5.5 New Jersey 284 3.3 3.5 2.8 3.1 3.1 3.1 −4.2 Texas 1,048 3.9 4.0 3.0 3.4 3.7 3.6 −4.2 New York City 524 6.6 6.7 5.3 6.2 6.3 6.2 −3.9 Washington 205 2.5 2.9 2.1 2.6 3.2 2.7 28.6 5-year average of 51–126 cases Mississippi 56 2.7 1.9 1.4 1.6 1.8 1.9 −31.7 Alabama 81 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.8 1.3 1.6 −30.0 Tennessee 114 2.1 1.9 1.7 1.2 1.5 1.7 −26.0 Hawaii 104 8.4 7.0 6.5 7.4 7.0 7.3 −17.1 Indiana 108 1.7 1.6 1.4 1.9 1.5 1.6 −16.1 Missouri 75 1.3 1.1 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.2 −14.3 Nevada 60 2.3 1.7 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 −13.3 Colorado 59 1.1 1.1 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 −12.7 Oregon 74 1.9 1.7 1.6 1.9 1.7 1.8 −11.1 Arkansas 67 2.5 2.1 2.0 2.3 2.2 2.2 −10.9 Louisiana 95 2.3 1.9 2.1 1.9 2.1 2.0 -8.8 Wisconsin 51 0.8 0.9 0.6 1.1 0.9 0.9 4.6 Oklahoma 73 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.7 2.0 1.8 6.9 Kentucky 64 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.3 1.6 1.4 8.4 Michigan 119 1.1 1.3 1.0 1.4 1.2 1.2 10.5 South Carolina 84 1.7 1.6 1.3 1.7 1.9 1.6 15.0 Connecticut 59 1.4 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.9 1.6 30.2 Alaska 66 8.5 7.9 7.9 7.9 13.0 9.1 51.8 5-year average of 1–50 cases District of Columbia 22 5.1 3.4 2.7 2.7 2.2 3.2 −56.3 Vermont 4 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 −41.8 Delaware 22 2.2 2.0 1.7 4.1 1.3 2.3 −40.3 Idaho 9 0.9 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.6 0.5 −32.3 North Dakota 13 1.7 2.4 1.3 1.9 1.3 1.7 −24.6 New Mexico 33 1.9 2.0 1.4 1.1 1.4 1.5 −23.8 South Dakota 13 1.4 1.8 1.8 1.3 1.1 1.5 −17.9 Rhode Island 15 1.8 1.3 0.7 1.6 1.6 1.4 −13.7 New Hampshire 11 0.9 0.4 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 −10.5 Wyoming 1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.5 0.2 0.2 −0.2 Nebraska 26 1.4 0.9 1.7 1.1 1.5 1.3 5.5 Montana 4 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.4 15.4 Maine 16 1.0 1.3 1.3 1.0 1.2 1.2 18.4 Iowa 50 1.6 1.6 1.2 1.5 1.9 1.6 21.0 Utah 25 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.5 1.0 0.8 73.6 Kansas 39 1.0 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.8 1.3 84.3 West Virginia 9 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.3 0.6 0.5 85.7 Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Number of TB cases per 100,000 persons.
Population data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, 2021.
Jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available.
† The 2025 national performance target is 1.3 cases per 100,000 population.
The 2025 National TB Program Objectives & Performance Targets reflect the projected performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States ( ).
¶ Reporting areas (i.e., jurisdictions) include all states, New York City, and the District of Columbia.
These areas are included because they report TB surveillance data directly to CDC.
Reporting areas are categorized into three groups based on the average number of TB cases reported over the 5-year reporting period.
The cutoffs for the groups were determined by the 5-year average number of cases that fell within the 33rd and 66th percentiles.
Result is based on unrounded numbers.
Top TABLE 2.
Tuberculosis incidence* among non–U.S.-born persons, by jurisdiction and reporting year — United States, 2018–2022†,§ Jurisdiction¶,** 5-year annual average number of cases†† 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 5-year annual average incidence among non-U.S.–born persons§§ Relative change from 2018 to 2022 (%)¶¶ 5-year average ≥127 cases Minnesota 141 29.5 27.3 22.0 21.5 19.7 24.0 −33.0 Maryland 183 18.7 18.1 13.0 14.5 13.2 15.5 −29.5 Pennsylvania 181 17.0 16.8 13.4 12.9 13.2 14.6 −22.0 Massachusetts 165 14.4 12.5 10.5 11.0 11.4 12.0 −20.7 Ohio 151 23.3 17.5 16.9 13.8 18.9 18.0 −19.2 Texas 1,048 14.0 14.6 11.2 12.2 11.4 12.7 −18.7 California 1,901 16.4 16.4 13.5 13.6 14.5 14.9 −11.2 New York 174 10.9 12.0 9.4 8.9 9.7 10.2 −11.0 Illinois 283 13.3 13.6 9.3 10.6 12.2 11.8 −8.3 North Carolina 176 12.1 11.2 10.3 11.0 11.4 11.2 −6.1 Arizona 156 13.2 13.0 9.5 9.4 12.5 11.5 −5.7 New Jersey 284 12.2 12.5 9.7 11.7 11.6 11.5 −4.6 Virginia 184 15.7 13.7 13.4 12.6 15.9 14.3 1.8 New York City 524 14.9 15.5 12.6 15.0 15.5 14.7 3.9 Florida 519 8.0 7.8 5.9 7.2 8.3 7.4 4.4 Washington 205 14.1 16.0 11.4 14.9 16.0 14.5 13.1 Georgia 255 13.3 15.2 11.4 12.3 16.2 13.7 21.8 5-year average of 51–126 cases Alaska 66 24.5 25.9 24.2 21.2 15.2 22.0 −38.1 Hawaii 104 39.7 31.5 27.8 32.2 33.0 32.8 −16.9 Alabama 81 17.8 23.2 14.5 17.8 16.1 17.8 −9.6 Nevada 60 9.1 6.7 6.7 7.6 8.3 7.7 −8.9 Indiana 108 18.4 18.6 14.7 19.0 17.7 17.7 −3.9 Tennessee 114 18.3 15.2 15.4 11.8 18.5 15.8 1.4 Colorado 59 9.0 10.2 7.4 8.2 9.1 8.8 1.5 Missouri 75 16.4 15.1 17.8 22.8 17.5 17.9 7.1 Wisconsin 51 11.2 12.6 7.5 18.8 12.2 12.5 8.6 Kentucky 64 21.2 23.3 18.5 20.9 23.7 21.5 11.5 Louisiana 95 18.8 16.9 14.3 16.6 21.1 17.6 12.2 Oklahoma 73 16.6 16.8 13.8 16.5 19.3 16.6 15.9 Oregon 74 12.2 13.5 12.5 14.1 14.3 13.3 17.6 Arkansas 67 16.3 12.9 13.6 19.9 20.6 16.6 26.2 Michigan 119 8.9 10.6 7.7 12.7 11.4 10.3 28.4 Mississippi 56 13.6 25.2 17.3 20.2 18.6 18.8 36.5 Connecticut 59 7.3 10.7 8.4 7.6 10.0 8.8 37.1 South Carolina 84 6.6 10.0 10.7 12.8 15.7 11.2 136.5 5-year average of 1–50 cases District of Columbia 22 28.3 19.9 19.9 12.1 12.1 18.6 −57.3 North Dakota 13 24.9 46.7 25.2 32.5 13.6 27.8 −45.6 Vermont 4 16.6 11.0 7.4 6.4 9.6 10.2 -42.4 Idaho 9 14.2 6.4 4.3 4.3 8.5 7.6 −39.6 Delaware 22 14.4 9.2 10.2 8.9 9.9 10.4 −31.1 New Mexico 33 14.2 13.7 9.6 7.8 11.4 11.3 −19.8 Rhode Island 15 11.0 8.5 4.9 8.7 9.9 8.6 −10.3 Nebraska 26 16.6 8.3 14.5 14.6 15.3 13.9 −7.8 New Hampshire 11 12.1 6.9 12.6 6.0 12.0 9.9 −0.8 Iowa 50 22.1 26.1 14.8 21.2 24.7 21.8 11.8 Maine 16 16.2 26.3 22.2 21.2 25.1 22.2 55.0 Kansas 39 10.1 12.3 13.3 13.6 16.5 13.2 62.9 South Dakota 13 13.5 33.7 22.4 30.0 26.2 25.3 93.6 Utah 25 4.9 6.6 8.5 5.4 9.7 7.0 98.0 West Virginia 9 3.8 3.6 25.4 13.6 17.0 12.8 350.9 Montana 4 0.0 9.5 4.7 0.0 8.5 4.4 —*** Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Number of TB cases per 100,000 non-US-born persons.
Population data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, 2021.
Jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available.
† The 2025 national performance target for non-U.S.–born persons is 8.8 cases per 100,000 population.
The 2025 National TB Program Objectives & Performance Targets reflect the projected performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States ( ).
¶ Reporting areas (i.e., jurisdictions) include all states, New York City, and the District of Columbia.
These areas are included because they report TB surveillance data directly to CDC.
Reporting areas are categorized into three groups based on the average number of TB cases reported over the 5-year period.
The cutoffs for the groups were determined by the 5-year average number of cases that fell within the 33rd and 66th percentiles.
Result is based on unrounded numbers.
*** Dash indicates that the relative change could not be calculated because no TB cases were reported among non–U.S.-born persons in 2018.
Top TABLE 3.
Percentage of persons with tuberculosis disease who have initial drug-susceptibility test results reported,* by jurisdiction and reporting year — United States, 2018–2022†,§ Jurisdiction¶,** 5-year annual average number of cases†† % of cases 5-year annual average percentage†† Relative change from 2018 to 2022 (%)§§ 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 5-year average ≥127 cases Texas 1,048 88.4 93.0 96.9 96.2 93.7 93.6 6.0 New York City 524 97.8 96.3 97.8 97.7 99.3 97.8 1.5 Ohio 151 99.2 99.1 87.5 94.0 100.0 96.0 0.8 Minnesota 141 99.3 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.9 0.8 Arizona 156 99.3 99.2 99.1 100.0 100.0 99.5 0.7 Massachusetts 165 98.1 98.6 99.1 96.8 97.7 98.1 −0.4 North Carolina 176 98.2 98.2 100.0 99.3 97.7 98.7 −0.5 Virginia 184 100.0 100.0 99.2 100.0 99.3 99.7 −0.7 New Jersey 284 96.6 99.2 95.8 96.9 95.7 96.8 −1.0 Georgia 255 97.5 93.8 94.9 89.9 93.8 94.0 −3.9 California 1,901 98.4 97.7 97.7 96.3 94.3 96.9 −4.2 Washington 205 100.0 98.9 99.2 98.8 95.0 98.4 −5.0 Florida 519 98.4 97.3 98.6 96.4 92.4 96.6 −6.1 Maryland 183 98.8 95.3 98.3 95.6 91.2 95.8 −7.7 New York 174 95.4 99.3 100.0 99.2 85.4 95.9 −10.4 Pennsylvania 181 97.7 96.4 97.7 98.6 86.9 95.4 −11.1 Illinois 283 96.8 95.0 96.8 93.4 79.4 92.3 −18.0 5-year average of 51–126 cases Missouri 75 32.6 4.7 96.9 94.9 98.3 65.5 201.9 Hawaii 104 94.9 100.0 98.6 98.7 100.0 98.4 5.4 Indiana 108 97.7 98.6 97.2 100.0 100.0 98.7 2.4 South Carolina 84 98.6 98.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.4 1.4 Kentucky 64 98.0 97.5 100.0 100.0 98.0 98.7 0.1 Michigan 119 100.0 98.9 100.0 97.6 100.0 99.3 0.0 Colorado 59 100.0 100.0 97.1 100.0 100.0 99.4 0.0 Alaska 66 100.0 97.7 100.0 100.0 97.1 98.9 −2.9 Tennessee 114 98.9 96.9 96.5 96.4 95.8 96.9 −3.1 Nevada 60 98.2 100.0 100.0 100.0 94.4 98.5 −3.8 Alabama 81 97.3 96.0 86.7 95.1 93.2 93.7 −4.2 Louisiana 95 97.7 93.2 98.7 98.6 93.0 96.3 −4.8 Oregon 74 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 94.8 99.0 −5.2 Connecticut 59 100.0 98.2 100.0 100.0 94.1 98.5 −5.9 Mississippi 56 98.3 100.0 93.5 94.7 91.1 95.5 −7.3 Arkansas 67 94.9 100.0 97.9 96.2 85.7 94.9 −9.7 Oklahoma 73 100.0 98.3 95.9 91.7 88.5 94.9 −11.5 Wisconsin 51 97.7 100.0 100.0 96.4 0.0 78.8 −100.0 5-year average of 1–50 cases North Dakota 13 85.7 73.3 50.0 92.3 100.0 80.3 16.7 New Mexico 33 96.7 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.3 3.4 Utah 25 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 District of Columbia 22 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 Delaware 22 100.0 93.3 100.0 96.9 100.0 98.0 0.0 Maine 16 100.0 92.3 100.0 100.0 100.0 98.5 0.0 South Dakota 13 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 New Hampshire 11 100.0 100.0 91.7 100.0 100.0 98.3 0.0 Idaho 9 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 West Virginia 9 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 Vermont 4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 Wyoming 1 100.0 100.0 —*** 0.0 100.0 — 0.0 Rhode Island 15 91.7 88.9 100.0 91.7 90.0 92.4 −1.8 Iowa 50 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 97.7 99.5 −2.3 Kansas 39 100.0 100.0 94.1 100.0 86.4 96.1 −13.6 Nebraska 26 95.0 92.3 92.6 94.7 81.8 91.3 −13.9 Montana 4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 60.0 92.0 −40.0 Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Among persons with positive culture results.
Jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available.
† 2025 national performance target is 100%.
The national performance targets reflect the projected performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States in 2025 ( ).
¶ Reporting areas (i.e., jurisdictions) include all states, New York City, and the District of Columbia.
These areas are included because they report TB surveillance data directly to CDC.
Reporting areas are categorized into three groups based on the average number of TB cases reported over the 5-year period.
The cutoffs for the groups were determined by the 5-year average number of cases that fell within the 33rd and 66th percentiles.
Result is based on unrounded numbers.
*** Dashes indicate that no patients met the indicator criteria for that year.
Therefore, percentages or relative change could not be calculated.
Top TABLE 4.
Percentage of contacts to sputum acid-fast bacillus smear-positive tuberculosis cases among persons who completed treatment for latent tuberculosis infection,* by jurisdiction and reporting year — United States, 2017–2021†,§ Jurisdiction¶,** 5-year annual average number of cases†† 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 5-year annual average percentage§§ Relative change from 2017 to 2021 (%)¶¶ 5-year average ≥131 cases Texas 1,050 53.8 82.1 80.9 85.6 83.0 77.1 54.3 Illinois 290 73.5 76.3 93.3 87.5 93.1 84.7 26.7 Washington 196 76.6 79.2 81.5 85.6 96.3 83.8 25.7 New York 177 72.5 70.1 52.9 75.5 88.6 71.9 22.2 Arizona 163 74.3 86.9 76.0 77.2 83.8 79.6 12.8 Pennsylvania 185 82.4 78.7 94.4 88.2 90.6 86.8 10.0 New York City 539 82.3 79.2 79.7 79.7 88.5 81.9 7.5 North Carolina 186 82.9 79.8 79.5 81.0 87.7 82.2 5.8 California 1,943 70.4 58.3 69.1 73.8 73.7 69.1 4.7 Virginia 186 88.9 82.9 86.5 91.8 92.0 88.4 3.5 Florida 522 80.8 89.9 88.2 89.8 81.8 86.1 1.2 New Jersey 283 85.4 90.5 87.7 86.0 85.2 87.0 −0.2 Minnesota 150 83.7 77.2 77.3 78.6 83.3 80.0 −0.5 Ohio 152 86.2 90.9 90.9 77.8 82.9 85.7 −3.8 Georgia 261 78.1 91.5 81.3 74.1 67.6 78.5 −13.4 Massachusetts 176 61.8 84.0 70.8 68.4 40.0 65.0 −35.3 Maryland 193 73.2 78.8 77.0 84.5 42.4 71.2 −42.0 5-year average of 50–130 cases Connecticut 58 54.5 36.8 78.4 53.3 94.7 63.5 73.8 Kentucky 63 74.2 80.6 86.1 75.8 100.0 83.3 34.8 Arkansas 71 68.9 85.5 91.5 76.2 91.2 82.7 32.4 Louisiana 104 58.6 65.4 60.0 61.5 75.0 64.1 28.0 Mississippi 55 82.1 86.5 50.0 0.0 94.7 62.7 15.3 Wisconsin 50 73.3 90.0 100.0 52.9 83.3 79.9 13.6 Oregon 73 82.0 93.4 91.1 96.9 92.9 91.3 13.3 Hawaii 107 85.2 93.3 73.7 76.5 95.1 84.8 11.6 Oklahoma 67 82.8 78.1 78.3 87.2 90.5 83.4 9.3 Alaska 58 78.2 95.0 79.2 90.9 81.3 84.9 4.0 Indiana 109 90.0 92.2 82.7 91.4 91.7 89.6 1.9 Michigan 122 95.2 86.2 94.6 95.2 96.6 93.6 1.5 South Carolina 84 94.9 86.6 95.6 95.5 93.9 93.3 −1.1 Colorado 65 90.3 84.0 88.3 93.3 84.6 88.1 −6.3 Tennessee 118 91.4 80.0 93.9 88.3 80.0 86.7 −12.5 Nevada 64 93.5 82.5 88.1 90.3 78.4 86.6 −16.1 Alabama 92 90.6 94.6 88.6 53.6 74.1 80.3 −18.2 Missouri 79 —*** — 52.9 100.0 76.5 76.5 — 5-year average of 1–49 cases Maine 15 2.7 — 66.7 71.4 100.0 60.2 3,603.7 South Dakota 14 72.7 100.0 90.5 85.7 100.0 89.8 37.6 Utah 24 82.4 100.0 100.0 75.0 100.0 91.5 21.4 District of Columbia 27 90.0 75.0 71.4 100.0 100.0 87.3 11.1 New Hampshire 12 75.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 77.8 90.6 3.7 Iowa 47 84.6 62.3 72.4 64.7 85.2 73.8 0.7 Delaware 23 90.9 77.5 100.0 60.0 80.0 81.7 −12.0 New Mexico 34 90.9 96.2 100.0 100.0 66.7 90.8 −26.6 Rhode Island 14 83.3 41.7 100.0 100.0 60.0 77.0 −28.0 Nebraska 24 28.6 — 100.0 — 0.0 42.9 −100.0 North Dakota 14 75.0 100.0 100.0 85.7 — 90.2 −100.0 West Virginia 10 100.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 60.0 −100.0 Montana 3 100.0 — 0.0 0.0 0.0 25.0 −100.0 Idaho 9 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 40.0 NA Vermont 4 0.0 0.0 — — 0.0 0.0 NA Wyoming 1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 NA Kansas 35 — — 87.5 91.7 89.5 89.6 — Abbreviations: AFB = acid-fast bacillus; LTBI = latent tuberculosis infection; NA = not applicable.
TB = tuberculosis.
*Among contacts to sputum AFB smear-positive TB patients with newly diagnosed LTBI who started treatment for LTBI.
Jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available.
† 2025 national performance target is 93%.
The national performance targets reflect the projected performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States in 2025 ( ).
¶ Reporting areas (i.e., jurisdictions) include all states, New York City, and the District of Columbia.
These areas are included because they report TB surveillance data directly to CDC.
Reporting areas are categorized into three groups based on the average number of TB cases reported over the 5-year period.
The cutoffs for the groups were determined by the 5-year average number of cases that fell within the 33rd and 66th percentiles.
Result is based on unrounded numbers.
*** Dashes indicate that no patients met the indicator criteria for that year.
Therefore, percentages or relative change could not be calculated.
Top TABLE 5.
Percentage of newly diagnosed tuberculosis cases among patients completing treatment ≤12 months,* jurisdiction and reporting year — United States, 2016–2020†,§ Jurisdiction¶,** 5-year annual average number of cases†† 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 5-year annual average percentage§§ Relative change from 2016 to 2020 (%)¶¶ 5-year average ≥131 cases Pennsylvania 186 78.4 75.6 84.4 89.6 88.8 83.2 13.2 Ohio 150 77.1 83.7 86.6 86.5 86.1 84.2 11.6 Arizona 175 87.4 92.5 84.4 94.0 91.7 89.8 4.9 Washington 197 92.7 93.4 94.1 93.9 95.5 93.9 3.1 Georgia 277 88.9 86.3 92.8 90.0 91.3 89.7 2.7 Florida 550 93.1 95.2 97.2 97.4 95.6 95.6 2.7 California 2,005 88.4 90.2 88.4 88.5 90.0 89.1 1.8 Illinois 307 93.8 92.6 89.9 93.8 94.9 92.8 1.1 Virginia 194 92.4 97.2 94.0 93.8 92.4 94.0 −0.1 Massachusetts 184 88.5 94.6 83.9 85.2 87.9 88.1 −0.6 Texas 1,099 84.9 85.7 85.8 86.8 83.7 85.4 −1.5 New Jersey 284 93.8 92.9 92.1 93.2 92.2 92.9 −1.7 North Carolina 194 92.0 94.6 90.2 95.5 89.9 92.6 −2.2 New York 187 95.6 93.2 95.7 88.3 93.0 93.3 −2.7 Minnesota 157 94.2 95.7 92.1 89.5 91.4 92.8 −3.0 New York City 544 93.3 92.9 93.1 90.2 90.2 92.0 −3.3 Maryland 199 93.4 86.6 77.5 83.5 76.2 84.0 −18.4 5-year average of 47–130 cases Oregon 71 79.3 90.2 95.8 96.8 94.7 91.6 19.5 Arkansas 75 78.6 78.9 76.1 87.5 86.4 80.8 9.9 Mississippi 58 89.1 86.0 93.8 89.6 97.1 91.1 9.0 Nevada 63 95.3 98.5 100.0 97.6 100.0 98.4 4.9 Indiana 105 92.3 96.4 95.8 94.4 94.4 94.7 2.2 Louisiana 112 75.9 83.2 75.8 73.7 77.4 77.6 2.0 Colorado 66 89.1 91.2 96.6 94.5 90.0 92.5 1.0 South Carolina 87 94.0 92.0 93.4 95.0 94.3 93.6 0.4 Missouri 83 81.1 73.6 74.6 79.0 79.7 77.7 −1.8 Alaska 58 88.9 91.5 94.7 90.4 85.7 90.3 −3.6 Alabama 96 87.6 88.8 86.4 93.0 84.5 88.2 −3.6 Michigan 121 94.8 96.0 95.3 94.3 90.4 94.3 −4.7 Iowa 47 92.5 97.4 95.2 76.9 87.5 90.1 −5.4 Kentucky 70 96.1 98.0 85.1 96.0 88.7 93.1 −7.7 Hawaii 109 99.0 96.9 94.1 91.9 90.4 94.8 −8.7 Oklahoma 69 94.9 95.8 94.8 82.7 83.3 90.6 −12.2 Connecticut 57 97.6 98.0 100.0 92.5 85.0 94.7 −12.9 Tennessee 122 95.3 95.2 92.6 97.3 82.1 92.7 −13.9 5-year average of 1–46 cases Wisconsin 45 85.3 90.0 85.7 97.5 91.3 90.1 7.0 New Mexico 37 89.3 96.0 91.2 89.2 93.8 91.4 5.0 West Virginia 12 81.8 84.6 60.0 100.0 84.6 83.3 3.4 Kansas 34 91.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 93.1 96.3 1.3 Vermont 4 100.0 50.0 40.0 75.0 100.0 72.2 0.0 North Dakota 15 90.5 92.3 81.8 75.0 90.0 86.6 −0.5 Utah 25 94.4 95.8 100.0 95.5 91.7 95.0 −2.9 Delaware 18 100.0 100.0 87.5 87.5 92.3 92.6 −7.7 Idaho 12 93.3 88.9 75.0 100.0 85.7 88.9 −8.2 District of Columbia 28 94.7 76.7 92.6 86.4 85.7 86.6 −9.5 New Hampshire 13 100.0 88.2 100.0 100.0 88.9 94.2 −11.1 South Dakota 14 88.9 100.0 72.7 91.7 76.9 85.7 −13.5 Rhode Island 13 87.5 77.8 78.6 72.7 75.0 78.3 −14.3 Maine 17 95.2 100.0 84.6 87.5 78.6 89.0 −17.5 Nebraska 25 56.0 66.7 83.3 84.6 42.3 64.1 −24.5 Montana 4 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 33.3 78.6 −66.7 Wyoming 1 —*** 100.0 100.0 100.0 — 100.0 — Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
* Jurisdictions were categorized into terciles based on the average number of cases during the 5-year reporting period for which the most recent data were available.
Details for the calculation of completion of therapy within 12 months are published in Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2021 (
† 2025 national performance target is 99%.
The national performance targets reflect the projected performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States in 2025 ( ).
¶ Reporting areas (i.e., jurisdictions) include all states, New York City, and the District of Columbia.
These areas are included because they report TB surveillance data directly to CDC.
Reporting areas are categorized into three groups based on the average number of TB cases reported over the 5-year period.
The cutoffs for the groups were determined by the 5-year average number of cases that fell within the 33rd and 66th percentiles.
Result is based on unrounded numbers.
*** Dashes indicate that there were no patients who met the indicator criteria for that year.
Therefore, percentages or relative change could not be calculated.
Top FIGURE.
Percentage of tuberculosis programs with improved performance based on relative change* from year 1 to year 5 of the reporting period for which the most recent data were available for overall incidence,† contacts who completed treatment for latent tuberculosis infection,§ tuberculosis incidence among non–U.S.-born persons,¶ completion of therapy within 12 months,** and drug susceptibility results reported†† — United States Source: 2025 National TB Program Objectives & Performance Targets (
Abbreviation: TB = tuberculosis.
† For the 5-year period from 2018 to 2022.
Incidence calculated as number of TB cases per 100,000 persons (or number of TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons per 100,000 non–U.S.-born persons).
Population data from Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, 2019.
The 2025 national performance target for TB incidence for this indicator is 1.3 cases per 100,000 persons.
§ For the 5-year period from 2017 to 2021.
Patients with latent TB infection completed treatment among contacts (to smear-positive TB cases) with diagnosed latent TB infection and started treatment.
The 2025 national performance target for TB incidence for this indicator is 93%.
¶ For the 5-year period from 2018 to 2022.
Incidence calculated as number of TB cases among non–U.S.-born persons per 100,000 non–U.S.-born persons.
Population data from Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, 2019.
The 2025 national performance target for TB incidence for this indicator is 8.8 cases per 100,000 persons.
** For the 5-year period from 2016 to 2020.
Completion of treatment among patients eligible to complete treatment within 12 months.
Details for the calculation of completion of therapy within 12 months are published in Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2021 (
The 2025 national performance target for TB incidence for this indicator is 99%.
†† For the 5-year period from 2018 to 2022.
Drug susceptibility test results among persons with positive culture results.
For the 5-year period from 2018 to 2022.
Drug susceptibility test results among persons with positive culture results.
The 2025 national performance target for TB incidence for this indicator is 100%.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Woodruff R, Pratt R, Kolasa M.
Progress Toward Tuberculosis Elimination and Tuberculosis Program Performance — National Tuberculosis Indicators Project, 2016–2022.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2024;73(No.
SS-4):1–18.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data SEARCH Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data CDC reports provisional tuberculosis data reported in the United States in 2024.
Learn More Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 CDC describes information on cases of tuberculosis disease reported to CDC since 1993.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 This report describes information on cases of tuberculosis (TB) disease reported to CDC and reveals...
Data Reports and Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation Data These reports provide national summaries of TB prevention activities.
Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Published estimates conclude millions of people in the United States have latent TB infection.
2021 State and City TB Report The 2021 State and City TB Report presents key process and outcome measures for U.S.
TB programs.
Featured Links Archived TB Data Reports Access archived CDC tuberculosis (TB) data reports.
Tuberculosis Case Reporting Tuberculosis is a nationally notifiable disease, and reporting is mandated in all states.
ATLAS Plus Online Tuberculosis Information System (OTIS) Data Data Security & Confidentiality TB Programs Information for Tuberculosis Programs Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All For Everyone APRIL 17, 2025 Aggregate Reports for TB Program Evaluation Data WHAT TO KNOW The Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) provide national summaries of TB prevention activities carried out by TB programs in the United States.
Overview Strategies for tuberculosis (TB) prevention include contact investigations, targeted testing, and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
The Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) provide national summaries of these activities carried out by TB programs in the United States.
Each year, TB programs report the results of these activities to CDC by entering the data into the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) performance-monitoring tool that allows TB programs to monitor their performance toward meeting National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets.
The data can be used by awardees as a tool to evaluate and coordinate TB prevention activities.
Explore the data Reports are available online for the previous two years.
Contact investigation reports 2022 ARPE Contact Investigations Report This 2022 Report summarizes national contact investigation efforts related to TB cases.
2022 ARPE U.S.
Affiliated Pacific Islands Contact Investigations Report This 2022 Report summarizes U.S.
Affiliated Pacific Islands TB contact investigation efforts.
2021 ARPE Contact Investigations Report This 2021 Report summarizes national contact investigation efforts related to TB cases.
Targeted testing reports 2022 ARPE Targeted Testing Report This 2022 Report summarizes targeted testing data, including treatment outcomes.
2021 ARPE Targeted Testing Report This 2021 Report summarizes targeted testing data, including treatment outcomes.
Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets 2030 ON THIS PAGE Overview Explore the data Resources RELATED PAGES 2022 ARPE Contact Investigations Report 2022 ARPE USAPI Contact Investigations Report 2022 ARPE Targeted Testing Report 2021 ARPE Contact Investigations Report 2021 ARPE Targeted Testing Report VIEW ALL Tuberculosis Data 2022 ARPE Contact Investigations Report SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
NEEMA EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About NEEMA NEEMA Abstracts NEEMA Published Papers NEEMA Success Stories NEEMA Meetings NEEMA Web Tools VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All Public Health FEBRUARY 19, 2024 NEEMA Web Tools AT A GLANCE National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA) supports development of web- and spreadsheet-based tools to provide state health policy makers and practitioners with information on local population sizes, disease trends, and cost projects for a variety of prevention strategies related to adolescent and school health, HIV, STIs, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis.
Tuberculosis (TB) Tabby2 Tabby2 is a publicly available webtool based on a deterministic model for estimating tuberculosis in the United States through the year 2050.
Tabby2 includes estimates for the United States, each of the 50 U.S.
states, and the District of Columbia.
Estimates have been adjusted to account for the 2020 decrease in tuberculosis due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Find the tool at:  .
Tabby2's flexibility and detailed model allow for state-specific estimates of tuberculosis outcomes, related services, and costs under base-case and intervention scenarios.12 The tool also allows users to estimate the number and cost of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) tests, LTBI treatments, and tuberculosis disease cases, as well as the cost effectiveness of hypothetical interventions.
States can use Tabby2 to set informed targets to make a compelling case to further tuberculosis elimination, and to help them plan for tuberculosis elimination.
Tabby directly reproduces numbers from Menzies et.al published in 2018.
Tabby2 updates the underlying data and adds functionality to predict tuberculosis in individual states.
Both Tabby and Tabby2 include predefined intervention scenarios to provide projections of tuberculosis trajectory.
Custom hypothetical scenarios allow users to select health outcomes and population groups of interest and compare different scenarios.
JHSPH state tuberculosis projections for California, Florida, New York, and Texas The tuberculosis projections tool estimates the impact and cost-effectiveness of targeted testing and treatment (TTT) for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) among key populations in the four most populous US states – California, Florida, New York, and Texas.3456 Summary Companion to Projected Percentage Reductions in TB incidence, 2016-2025 for key populations in California, Florida, New York and Texas.
 Caution: This tool uses pre-COVID-19 pandemic data and based on historical tuberculosis data from 1993-2013 does not reflect the current trends in tuberculosis incidence in the United States.
HIV PrEP populations Estimate the number of individuals indicated for PrEP.
Learn more at PrEP Populations .7 Adolescent health teen-SPARC (STI Prevention and Risk Calculator) This Excel-based tool is designed to assist health departments in estimating the short-term impact of behavior change on the burden of sexually transmitted infections among adolescents in their jurisdictions.
Learn more at teen-SPARC .8 HCV policy simulations for prisons HCV-PSP tool Interactive tool that projects the cost and population health outcomes from a range of hepatitis C screening and treatment scenarios in correctional and detention facilities, using user-defined data inputs.9 The HCV Policy Simulations for Prisons (HCV-PSP) tool allows correctional and detention facilities to estimate and compare the population health benefits (including number of hepatitis C diagnoses and number of HCV infections cured) and budgetary impact of a range of strategies for hepatitis C testing and treatment in their facilities.
All costs are from the facility perspective.
To generate custom estimates, users can modify a set of input variables including population characteristics, intervention parameters, and costs.
Learn more about the HCV-PSP tool .
Creation of web tools was supported by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA) PS14-1415.
Other web tools Hep C state policy simulator The Hep C State Policy Simulator (the Simulator) is a tool to help state heath policy makers and practitioners make decisions regarding policy, strategy, and investments related to hepatitis C.
The Simulator was developed by Mass General Hospital and Harvard Medical School with support from CDC through a cooperative agreement awarded to ChangeLab Solutions.
Learn more at HepCSim .
Creation of Hep C State Policy Simulator was supported by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through a Cooperative Agreement number NU38OT000141.
ON THIS PAGE Tuberculosis (TB) HIV Adolescent health HCV policy simulations for prisons Other web tools RELATED PAGES About NEEMA NEEMA Abstracts NEEMA Published Papers NEEMA Success Stories NEEMA Meetings VIEW ALL NEEMA About NEEMA SOURCES PRINT SHARE NEEMA CDC improves the effectiveness of public health programs through the NCHHSTP Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA) program.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All APRIL 23, 2024 Data Security & Confidentiality WHAT TO KNOW CDC has Data Security and Confidentiality Guidelines for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, Sexually Transmitted Disease, and Tuberculosis Programs: Standards to Facilitate Sharing and Use of Surveillance Data for Public Health Action.
About these resources Adoption of common practices for securing and protecting data will provide a critical foundation and be increasingly important for ensuring the appropriate sharing and use of data as programs begin to modify policies and increasingly use data for public health action.
Resources Data Security FAQ Data and security frequently asked questions NOV.
28, 2023 Data Sharing and Collection Principles and Standards A list of the 10 guiding principles for data collection, storage, sharing, and use.
4, 2023 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All SEPTEMBER 16, 2024 2021 ARPE Targeted Testing Report PURPOSE TB programs report results of their targeted testing activities to CDC by entering the data into the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) form through the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) performance-monitoring tool.
This report summarizes targeted testing data, including treatment outcomes, from efforts in 2021.
About the Report Background Targeted testing is an effective prevention strategy for reducing the morbidity and mortality of tuberculosis (TB) disease in the United States.
Targeted testing is used to identify and treat persons infected with M.
tuberculosis, including active disease and latent TB infection.
Identifying and treating persons who have latent TB infection is important as an estimated 80% of US TB cases are believed to be the result of longstanding, untreated latent TB infection.1 Beginning in 2020, CDC-funded state and city TB programs with ≥150 TB cases were required to submit targeted testing data (as outlined in the cooperative agreements) by entering the data into the ARPE form2 through the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) performance-monitoring tool.
Targeted testing data This report focuses on targeting testing efforts in 2021.
Because targeted testing reporting includes treatment outcomes, final reporting extends over a 12-month period.
For example, this means that individuals with TB infection identified in December 2021 would have until December 2022 to finish treatment, and the data would then be reported in 2023.
Targeted testing data are submitted using the following 3 categories: Project Targeted testing project data include groups done at sites outside the health department, as determined by the needs or convenience of the groups being tested.
Testing projects might be held once, or they might be recurrent (e.g., annual testing at a correctional facility) or ongoing (e.g., testing of all new admissions to a homeless shelter).
Individual Targeted testing individual data include testing for individuals or groups that occurs outside of testing projects; testing is often done at a health department clinic.
Administrative Administrative data include testing that is done when testing is a low public health priority because the tested persons or groups are not at risk for TB and might not be candidates for latent TB infection treatment.
This testing is often required by regulations or policies created outside the TB control program.2 The number submitted in each category indicates the number of individuals the program classified under that category.
Reporting states and cities The following states and cities reported targeted testing data in 2021: California, Florida, Georgia, Los Angeles, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York City, New York State, North Carolina, Ohio, San Diego, Virginia, and Washington.
Data from some reporting areas was incomplete and the number of programs reporting varies by table, leading to differences in overall numbers between tables.
Footnotes on each table in this report indicate which jurisdictions reported for each indicator.
Data summary Of the 48,276 persons sought, enlisted, or registered for targeted testing in 2021 in this aggregate data set, 45,450 (94.1%) were evaluated for TB infection, 56 (0.1%) were diagnosed with TB disease, and 6,176 (13.6%) were diagnosed with latent TB infection.
Of those persons diagnosed with latent TB infection, 4,874 (78.9%) were considered candidates for treatment by the TB program.
Persons with latent TB infection are counted in this category if they should receive treatment according to the treatment guidelines in effect at the time of testing.
Counting under this category should be determined according to medical and epidemiological factors, even if treatment will not be prescribed because of other factors.
Of those considered candidates for treatment, 2,894 started treatment (59.4%).
Of those that started treatment, 2,252 (77.8%) completed treatment (Table 1).
Reporting U.S.–born vs.
non-U.S.–born status is currently optional.
It is also optional to report the use of Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) and Tuberculin Skin Testing (TST).
Of the 48,276 persons sought, enlisted, or registered for targeted testing in 2021, 24,892 were reported as U.S.- born and 8,009 were reported as non-U.S.- born.
A total of 37,907 persons were tested with IGRA and 585 with TST, although reported use of these tests was not mutually exclusive.
Further analysis indicates that of the 360 patients who stopped treatment, as reported by 5 programs, 201 were identified as lost to follow-up.
Of the 93 patients listed as stopping treatment, reasons listed included an adverse effect to the treatment (33), medical provider decision (16), moved (14), and death (3) (Table 3).
Targeted testing, 2021 Data shown in tables and figures are up to date as of September 11, 2023.
Expand All Table 1: Persons sought, enlisted, or registered for targeted testing Figure 1: Persons who sought, enlisted, or registered for targeted testing by treatment disposition Table 2: Persons diagnosed with latent TB infection, by risk type and by starting and completing treatment regimen Table 3: Reasons patient stopped treatment for persons identified with latent TB infection through targeted testing who started treatment Evaluation Indices, 2021 Expand All Table 4: Targeted testing evaluation indices Table 5: Targeted testing evaluation indices for persons identified with latent TB infection, by risk type Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment for Latent TB Form Download ON THIS PAGE About the Report Reporting states and cities Data summary Targeted testing, 2021 Evaluation Indices, 2021 Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All For Everyone APRIL 17, 2025 2022 ARPE Targeted Testing Report PURPOSE Tuberculosis (TB) programs report results of their targeted testing activities to CDC by entering the data into the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) form through the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) performance-monitoring tool.
This report summarizes targeted testing data, including treatment outcomes, from efforts in 2022.
About the Report Background Targeted testing for tuberculosis (TB) is a strategy to diagnose and treat latent TB infection among persons who are at risk of developing TB disease.
Treating latent TB infection supports U.S.
TB elimination goals through preventing TB disease and stopping the spread of TB to others.
Longstanding, untreated latent TB infection accounts for approximately 80% of the TB cases in the United States.1 Beginning in 2020, CDC-funded state and city TB programs with ≥150 TB cases were required to submit targeted testing data (as outlined in the cooperative agreements) by entering the data into the ARPE form2 through the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project (NTIP) performance-monitoring tool.
Targeted testing data This report focuses on targeting testing efforts in 2022.
Because targeted testing reporting includes treatment outcomes, final reporting extends over a 12-month period.
For example, this means that individuals with TB infection identified in December 2022 would have until December 2023 to finish treatment, and the data would then be reported in 2024.
TB programs report aggregate targeted testing data in the following categories:2 Projects Targeted testing project data include groups done at sites outside the health department, as determined by the needs or convenience of the groups being tested.
Testing projects might be held once, or they might be recurrent (e.g., annual testing at a correctional facility) or ongoing (e.g., testing of all new admissions to a homeless shelter).
Individual Targeted testing individual data include testing for individuals or groups that occurs outside of testing projects; testing is often done at a health department clinic.
Administrative Administrative data include testing that is done when testing is a low public health priority because the tested persons or groups are not at risk for TB and might not be candidates for latent TB infection treatment.
This testing is often required by regulations or policies created outside the TB control program.
Referral Referral data include testing of people who were referred to the health department because of possible latent TB infection.
Reporting states and cities The following states and cities reported targeted testing data in 2022: California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Los Angeles, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, New York City, North Carolina, San Diego, Texas, and Virginia.
Data from some reporting areas was incomplete and the number of programs reporting varies by table, leading to differences in overall numbers between tables.
Data summary In 2022, 60,068 persons were sought, enlisted, registered, or referred for targeted testing, and 57,223 (95.3%) of those persons were evaluated for TB infection (Table 1).
The targeted testing form allows optional reporting of U.S.–born or non-U.S.–born status as well as the use of Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test or a Tuberculin Skin Test (TST).
Of the persons identified for targeted testing, 24,236 persons were optionally reported as U.S.-born and 14,889 persons reported as non-U.S.-born.
For the optional testing data, 42,405 persons were tested with an IGRA and 5,169 persons were tested with a TST, although reported use of these tests was not mutually exclusive.
Most persons diagnosed with LTBI were considered candidates for LTBI treatment (7,004; 78.1%) with 3,188 (45.5%) of those candidates starting treatment (Table 2).
Of the candidates who started LTBI treatment, 2,185 (68.5%) completed their treatment (Figure 1).
Fifteen TB programs optionally specified reasons for why 424 patients did not complete LTBI treatment (Table 3).
About half of the patients did not complete LTBI treatment because they were lost to follow-up (50.5%).
Other reported reasons for patients not completing treatment included patient choosing to stop (31.4%), adverse effect of the medicine (8.5%), unknown follow-up due to the patient moving out of the reporting TB program’s jurisdiction (6.8%), provider deciding to stop patient’s treatment (2.1%), and patient’s death during treatment (0.7%).
No patients reportedly stopped LTBI treatment due to developing TB disease (0%).
TB program performance on specific targeted testing activities is summarized by targeted testing categories and LTBI risk types in Tables 4 and 5.
Targeted testing, 2022 Table 1: Persons sought, enlisted, or registered for targeted testing (N=19 reporting programs) Targeted Testing Category Total Projects Individual* Administrative* Referral* Persons sought, enlisted, registered, or referred for targeted testing 39,265 16,207 4,061 535 60,068 U.S.-born* 23,408 632 125 71 24,236 Non-U.S.–born* 6,247 8,209 60 373 14,889 Persons Evaluated 37,856 15,159 3,701 507 57,223 Tuberculin skin test (TST)* 4,793 217 57 102 5,169 Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA)* 30,844 10,699 804 58 42,405 Persons Diagnosed 3,413 2,515 414 2,697 9,039 with TB disease 4 40 17 5 66 with latent TB infection 3,409 2,475 397 2,692 8,973 Abbreviations: TST, tuberculin skin test; IGRA, interferon gamma release assay blood test; TB, tuberculosis.
Reported data about use of TST or IGRA were not mutually exclusive.
Counts in this table are inconsistent due to missing data submitted to CDC.
See ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment Form and Instructions for more details about the targeted testing category and risk groups.
* Indicates optional field for data submission.
Table 2: Treatment initiation and completion of persons diagnosed with latent TB infection by risk type Diagnosed with latent TB infection (n = 8,973) Candidate for latent TB infection treatment (n = 7,004) Started latent TB infection treatment (n = 3,188) Completed latent TB infection treatment (n = 2,185) Targeted testing projects Persons with medical risk* 230 140 117 83 Persons with population risk* 3,179 2,275 1,152 918 Individual targeted testing* Persons with medical risk* 476 360 277 186 Persons with population risk* 1,999 1,654 1,059 697 Administrative targeted testing 397 283 177 97 Referral testing* Persons with medical risk* 91 13 39 12 Persons with population risk* 2,584 2,279 367 192 Persons for administrative evaluation* 17 0 0 0 Abbreviation: LTBI, latent tuberculosis infection Counts in this table are inconsistent due to missing data submitted to CDC.
See ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment Form and Instructions for more details about the targeted testing category and risk groups.
* Indicates optional field for data submission.
Notes for Table 2A Figure 1: Reported Treatment Disposition of Targeted Testing Patients Diagnosed with Latent TB infection Skip Over Chart Container Skip over annotations 7,004 3,188 2,185 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 Number of Persons CandidateforTreatment StartedTreatment CompletedTreatment Targeted Testing Projects Individual Targeted Testing Administrative Targeted Testing Referral Testing Abbreviation: LTBI, latent tuberculosis infection.
Data in this figure were submitted by 19 programs Alabama, American Samoa, California (excluding Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco), Los Angeles (CA), San Diego (CA), San Francisco (CA), Florida, Georgia, Illinois (excluding Chicago), Baltimore (MD), Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York (excluding New York City), New York City (NY), North Carolina, Houston (TX), Texas (excluding Houston), and Virginia.
Treatment disposition was not reported for all cases.
Table 3: Reason treatment was not completed by patients who started treatment for latent TB infection Targeted Testing Category Total (n = 424) Projects Individual* Administrative* Referral* Developed TB disease* 0 0 0 0 0 Adverse effect of medicine* 7 27 2 0 36 Death* 2 1 0 0 3 Patient chose to stop* 15 96 20 2 133 Patient lost to follow-up* 44 156 10 4 214 Patient moved (follow-up unknown)* 7 21 1 0 29 Provider decision* 1 6 2 0 9 Data in this table were only submitted by 15 programs: American Samoa, California (excluding Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco), Los Angeles (CA), San Diego (CA), San Francisco (CA), Florida, Baltimore (MD), Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York (excluding New York City), New York City (NY), North Carolina, Texas (excluding Houston), and Virginia.
Counts in this table are inconsistent due to missing data submitted to CDC.
See ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment Form and Instructions for more details about the targeted testing category and risk groups.
* Indicates optional field for data submission.
Evaluation Indices, 2022 Table 4: Percentage of persons evaluated and diagnosed by targeted testing Targeted Testing Category Projects Individual* Administrative* Evaluation of persons sought, enlisted, or registered 96.4% 93.5% 91.1% TB diagnosis of persons evaluated 0.01% 0.3% 0.5% Latent TB infection diagnosis of persons evaluated 9.0% 16.3% 10.7% Abbreviations: TB, tuberculosis; LTBI, latent tuberculosis infection.
Percentages were calculated using available data submitted to CDC.
See ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment Form and Instructions for more details about the targeted testing category and risk groups.
* Indicates optional field for data submission.
Table 5: Targeted testing evaluation indices for persons identified with latent TB infection, by risk type Targeted testing projects Individual targeted testing* Administrative targeted testing* Medical risk Population risk Medical risk* Population risk* Candidates for treatment of person diagnosed with latent TB infection 60.9% 71.6% 75.6% 82.7% 71.3% Treatment started by patients who are candidates for treatment 83.6% 50.6% 76.9% 64.0% 62.5% Treatment completed by patients who started treatment 70.9% 79.7% 67.1% 65.8% 54.8% Abbreviation: LTBI, latent tuberculosis infection.
Percentages were calculated using available data submitted to CDC.
See ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment Form and Instructions for more details about the targeted testing category and risk groups.
* Indicates optional field for data submission.
Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment for Latent TB Form Download Clinical Testing and Diagnosis for Tuberculosis About the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project TB Program Evaluation ON THIS PAGE About the Report Reporting states and cities Data summary Targeted testing, 2022 Evaluation Indices, 2022 Resources 2021 ARPE Contact Investigations Report SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All NOVEMBER 1, 2024 2021 ARPE Contact Investigations Report PURPOSE This Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) report summarizes national contact investigation efforts related to tuberculosis (TB) cases diagnosed in 2021 as well as summary data from the period 2017-2020.
About the report Follow-up examination and treatment of contacts to patients with tuberculosis (TB) is a national TB prevention and control priority in the United States.
Each year, TB programs report results of their contact investigation activities to CDC by entering the data into the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) form via the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project performance-monitoring tool.
ARPE data provide the only national level data on contact investigations and are reported in three categories: Sputum smear-positive Sputum smear-negative/culture-positive Other The data are also used by awardees as a tool to evaluate and coordinate TB prevention activities.
Data summary In 2021, 7,882 TB cases were reported in the United States.
Of these, 3,320 were AFB smear-positive and 1,420 were AFB smear-negative, culture-positive.
The number of sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB cases identified in 2021 (3,320) were fewer than the annual number identified during 2017-2019 (range: 3,364 - 3,481) but higher than those identified in 2020 (2,879).
Elicitation of contacts Similarly, the number of contacts elicited declined in 2021 (27,202) as compared to any year in the period 2017-2020 (range: 35,915-53,783).
The percentage of cases with contacts elicited in 2021 (3,050; 91.9%) was also lower than the annual percentages achieved during the period 2017-2020, with all years falling below the 2025 National Performance Target of 100%.
Declines in the number and percentage of cases with contacts elicited in 2021 as compared to prior years might be related to the COVID-19 epidemic, so caution should be exercised when interpreting that data.
Evaluation of contacts Evaluation of contacts to smear-positive cases in 2021 (76.2%) also remained below the 2025 National Performance Target of 94% but was similar to levels of performance achieved annually during the period 2017-2020 (range: 75.7% -80.6%).
Diagnosis and treatment of latent TB infection Among the 27,202 contacts elicited to smear-positive cases in 2021, 4,438 (21.4%) were diagnosed with latent TB infection.
Of those, 73.7% (3,272) initiated treatment and 81.2% (2,657) of those completed treatment.
The 2021 latent TB infection treatment initiation percentage (73.7%) was lower than that achieved annually between 2017-2020 (range: 75.8%-77.8%).
Treatment completion percentages were similar throughout the period of 2017-2021 (range: 76.8%-81.2%).
Performance for both latent TB infection treatment initiation and completion remains below the 2025 National TB Performance Targets of 92% and 93%, respectively.
Additionally, among persons diagnosed with latent TB infection and determined to be contacts of smear-positive TB cases in 2021, contacts choosing to stop treatment for any reason accounted for 32.4%, while contacts lost to follow-up accounted for 43.5%.
Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Appendix A.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum Acid-fast Bacillus (AFB) Smear-Positive TB Cases, 2017-2021A Expand All Table 1: Counts of Smear-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 2: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 3: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Expand All Figure 1 Additional information Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Expand All Figure 2 Additional information Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Expand All Figure 3 Additional information Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Expand All Figure 4 Additional information Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB smear-positive TB cases Expand All Figure 5 Appendix B.
Sputum smear-negative, culture-positive TB cases Appendix B.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum AFB Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive TB Cases, 2016-2020A Expand All Table 4: Counts of Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 5: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 6: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Appendix C: Other* Appendix C.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Other* Cases, 2017-2021A * Other: Contact investigations not captured in investigating sputum AFB smear-positive or sputum AFB smear-negative, culture-positive.
For example: Associate-contact or source-case investigations done because of a child with TB disease.
Expand All Table 7: Counts of Contacts Table 8: Reasons Contacts Stopped Treatment for Latent TB Infection Table 9: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) ARPE Follow-Up and Treatment of Contacts of TB Patients Form Download ON THIS PAGE About the report Data summary Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB smear-positive TB cases Appendix B.
Sputum smear-negative, culture-positive TB cases Appendix C: Other* Show More SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All OCTOBER 17, 2024 2022 ARPE U.S.
Affiliated Pacific Islands Contact Investigations Report PURPOSE This Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) report summarizes contact investigation efforts related to TB cases diagnosed in 2022 and summary data from the period 2018-2022 updated through August 5, 2024.
The report includes the U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands (USAPI).
About the report Follow-up examination and treatment of contacts to patients with tuberculosis (TB) is a national TB prevention and elimination strategic priority in the United States.
Each year, TB programs report results of their contact investigation activities to CDC by entering the data into the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) form via the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project performance-monitoring tool.
The data are also used by awardees as a tool to evaluate and coordinate TB prevention activities.
The report includes the U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands (USAPI), which consist of the U.S.
territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam, along with the freely associated states of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Data summary Elicitation and examination of contacts During the cohort year 2022, 97.2% (70 of 72) of sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB cases diagnosed had contacts elicited.
Of the 1,300 contacts elicited, 77.3% (1,005) were evaluated for TB infection.
Neither contact elicitation nor contact examination met the 2025 National Performance Targets of 100% and 94%, respectively.
There were several observations in the investigations of sputum AFB smear-positive TB cases.
The percentage of contacts elicited and evaluated in 2022 was relatively stable when compared to 2018-2021.
Diagnosis and treatment Among contacts evaluated, 2.1% (22) were diagnosed with TB disease, and 20.9% (210) were diagnosed with latent TB infection.
Treatment of latent TB infection was initiated among 28.1% (59) of infected contacts, and 44.1% (26) of those completed treatment.
Both latent TB infection treatment initiation and completion remain below the 2025 National TB Performance Targets of 92% and 93%, respectively.
Latent TB infection treatment initiation steadily increased between 2018 through 2021 (47.0% in 2018, 53.0% in 2019, 55.6% in 2020, 78.8% in 2021) but dropped markedly in 2022 (28.1%).
Similarly, latent TB infection treatment completion among those starting treatment declined sharply in 2022 to 44.1% as compared to 2018-2021 (87.1%, 75.8%, 70.8%, and 81.6%, respectively).
The reasons for these sharp declines are unclear.
Program evaluation can help USAPI jurisdictions understand why these declines occurred in 2022 and provide insight into strategies for improvement.
Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Appendix A.
USAPI Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum Acid-fast Bacillus (AFB) Smear-Positive TB Cases, 2018-2022A Expand All Table 1: Counts of Smear-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 2: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 3: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Table 4: USAPI Compared with U.S.
Domestic Jurisdictions Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Expand All Figure 1 Additional information Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Expand All Figure 2 Additional information Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Expand All Figure 3 Additional information Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Expand All Figure 4 Additional information Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB-smear positive TB cases Expand All Figure 5 Appendix B: Sputum smear-negative, culture positive TB cases Appendix B.
USAPI Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum AFB Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive TB Cases, 2018-2022B Expand All Table 5: Counts of Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 6: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 7: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Appendix C: Other* Appendix C.
USAPI Counts and Indices for Investigation of Other* Cases, 2018-2022C Other = Contact investigations not captured in investigating sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive or sputum AFB smear-negative, culture-positive.
For example: Associate-contact or source-case investigations done because of a child with TB.
Expand All Table 8: Counts of Contacts Table 9: Reasons Contacts Stopped Treatment for Latent TB Infection Table 10: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices ON THIS PAGE About the report Data summary Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB-smear positive TB cases Appendix B: Sputum smear-negative, culture positive TB cases Appendix C: Other* SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All Public Health APRIL 23, 2024 Data Sharing and Collection Principles and Standards WHAT TO KNOW There are 10 guiding principles for collection, storage, sharing, and use for data collected by NCHHSTP-funded programs, which represent five recommended standards to ensure the security, confidentiality, and appropriate use of data.
Ten Guiding Principles These are guiding principles for Data Collection, Storage, Sharing, and Use to Ensure Security and Confidentiality.A Public health data should be acquired, used, disclosed, and stored for legitimate public health purposes.
Programs should collect the minimum amount of personally identifiable information necessary to conduct public health activities.
Programs should have strong policies to protect the privacy and security of personally identifiable data.
Data collection and use policies should reflect respect for the rights of individuals and community groups and minimize undue burden.
Programs should have policies and procedures to ensure the quality of any data they collect or use.
Programs have the obligation to use and disseminate summary data to relevant stakeholders in a timely manner.
Programs should share data for legitimate public health purposes and may establish data-use agreements to facilitate sharing data in a timely manner.
Public health data should be maintained in a secure environment and transmitted through secure methods.
Minimize the number of persons and entities granted access to identifiable data.
Program officials should be active, responsible stewards of public health data.
Standards to facilitate data sharing and use of surveillance data for public health action The following standards are based on the Guiding Principles and represent the recommended standards to ensure the security, confidentiality, and appropriate use, including sharing, of data collected by NCHHSTP-funded programs.
1.0 - Program Policies and Responsibilities 2.0 - Data Collection and Use 3.0 - Data Sharing and Release 4.0 - Physical Security 5.0 - Electronic Data Security 1.0 Program policies and responsibilities 1.1 - Develop written policies and procedures on data security and confidentiality; review policies and procedures at least annually; revise them as needed; and ensure their review by and accessibility to all staff members having authorized access to confidential individual-level data.
1.2 - Designate a person or persons to act as the overall responsible party (ORP) for the security of public health data your program collects or maintains and ensure that the ORP is named in any policy documents related to data security.
1.3 - Ensure that data security policies define the roles and access levels of all persons with authorized access to confidential public health data and the procedures for accessing data securely.
1.4 - Ensure that data security policies require ongoing reviews of evolving technologies and include a computer back-up or disaster recovery plan.
1.5 - Ensure that any breach of data security protocol, regardless of whether personal information was released, is reported to the ORP and investigated immediately.
Any breach that results in the release of personally identifiable information (PII) to unauthorized persons should be reported to the ORP, to CDC, and, if warranted to law enforcement agencies.
1.6 - Ensure that staff members with access to identifiable public health data attend data security and confidentiality training annually.
1.7 - Require all newly hired staff members to sign a confidentiality agreement before being given access to identifiable information; require all staff members to re-sign their confidentiality agreements annually.
1.8 - Ensure that all persons who have authorized access to confidential public health data take responsibility for 1) implementing the program's data security policies and procedures, 2) protecting the security of any device in their possession on which PII are stored, and 3) reporting suspected security breaches.
1.9 - Certify annually that all data security standards have been met.
2.0 Data collection and use 2.1 - Clearly specify the purpose for which the data will be collected.
2.2 - Collect and use the minimum information needed to conduct specified public health activities and achieve the stated public health purpose.
2.3 - Collect personally identifiable data only when necessary; use nonidentifiable data whenever possible.
2.4 - Ensure that data that are collected and/or used for public health research are done in accordance with stipulations in Common Rule, Title 45, Part 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which includes obtaining both institutional review board (IRB) approval for any proposed federally funded research and informed consent of individuals directly contacted for further participation.
3.0 Data sharing and release 3.1 - Limit sharing of confidential or identifiable information to those with a justifiable public health need; ensure that any data-sharing restrictions do not compromise or impede public health program or disease surveillance activities and that the ORP or other appropriate official has approved this access.
3.2 - Assess the risks and benefits of sharing identifiable data for other than their originally stated purpose or for purposes not covered by existing policies.
3.3 - Ensure that any public health program with which personally identifiable public health data are shared has data security standards equivalent to those in this document.
3.4 - Ensure that public health information is released only for purposes related to public health, except where required by law.
3.5 - Establish procedures, including assessment of risks and benefits, for determining whether to grant requests for aggregate data not covered by existing data-release policies.
3.6 - Disseminate nonidentifiable summary data to stakeholders as soon as possible after data are collected.
3.7 - Assess data quality before disseminating data.
3.8 - Ensure that data-release policies define purposes for which the data can be used and provisions to prevent public access to raw data or data tables that could contain indirectly identifying information.
4.0 Physical security 4.1 - To the extent possible, ensure that persons working with hard copies of documents containing confidential, identifiable information do so in a secure, locked area.
4.2 - Ensure that documents containing confidential information are shredded with crosscutting shredders before disposal.
4.3 - Ensure that data-security policies and procedures address handling of paper copies, incoming and outgoing mail, long-term paper storage, and data retention.
The amount of confidential information in all such correspondence should be kept to a minimum and destroyed when no longer needed.
4.4 - Limit access to secure areas that contain confidential public health data to authorized persons and establish procedures to control access to secure areas by non-authorized persons.
4.5 - Ensure that program personnel working with documents containing PII in the field 1) return the documents to a secure area by close of business, 2) obtain prior approval from the program manager for not doing so, or 3) follow approved procedures for handling such documents.
4.6 - Ensure that documents with line lists or supporting notes contain the minimum amount of potentially identifiable information necessary and, if possible, that any potentially identifiable data are coded to prevent inadvertent release of PII.
5.0 Electronic data security 5.1 - Ensure that analysis data sets that can be accessed from outside the secure area are stored with protective software (i.e., software that controls data storage, removal, and use), and verify removal of all personal identifiers.
5.2 - Ensure that any electronic transfer of data is approved by the ORP and subject to access controls, and that identifiable data are encrypted before being transferred.
5.3 - Before transferring electronic data containing PII, ensure that the data have been encrypted with use of an encryption package that meets Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) criteria and that the data transfer has been approved by the appropriate program official or ORP.
No electronic data containing identifying information should be transferred without being encrypted.
5.4 - Use encryption software that meets federal AES standards to encrypt data with PII on all laptops and other portable devices that receive or store public health data with personal identifiers.
5.5 - Ensure that data policies include procedures for handling incoming and outgoing facsimile transmissions.
Minimize inclusion of PII in fax transmissions and destroy hard copies and sanitize hard drives when no longer needed.
ON THIS PAGE Ten Guiding Principles Standards to facilitate data sharing and use of surveillance data for public health action 1.0 Program policies and responsibilities 2.0 Data collection and use 3.0 Data sharing and release 4.0 Physical security 5.0 Electronic data security RELATED PAGES Data Security & Confidentiality Data Security FAQs Program Collaboration Service Integration VIEW ALL Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration Service Integration SOURCES PRINT SHARE Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All OCTOBER 28, 2024 ARPE Follow-Up and Treatment of Contacts of TB Patients Form AT A GLANCE The Follow-Up and Treatment of Contacts of TB Patients form helps TB programs provide an annual summary about identifying and evaluating contacts to TB cases and treating the contacts who test positive for latent TB infection.
Format: PDF Dimensions: 8.5x11 Page count: 8 Language: English (US) Size: 183 KB Last updated: October 2, 2024 View SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All OCTOBER 29, 2024 ARPE Targeted Testing and Treatment for Latent TB Form AT A GLANCE The Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis (TB) Program Evaluation (ARPE) Targeted Testing and Treatment for Latent TB Infection Form includes instructions to help TB programs submit annual summaries on targeted testing to CDC.
Format: PDF Dimensions: 8.5x11 Page count: 12 Language: English (US) Size: 314 KB Last updated: October 2, 2024 View SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All APRIL 23, 2024 Data Security FAQ WHAT TO KNOW Find the answers to frequently asked questions about data security and confidentiality guidelines.
Frequently asked questions 1.
Why are these not titled "Guidelines for Sharing Data"?
Why don't they have the word "sharing" in the title?
These guidelines provide standards for security and confidentiality for data in all programs funded by the National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP).
Sharing is facilitated when the lack of protection is no longer a barrier for programs that conform to these guidelines.
Data sharing standards are included as part of these guidelines, however, this document does not specify details of how, what, or when data should be shared.
Do these replace the HIV Security and Confidentiality Guidelines?
These replace the Technical Guidance for HIV/AIDS Surveillance Programs, Volume III: Security and Confidentiality Guidelines and establish formal security and confidentiality guidelines for HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB programs funded through NCHHSTP.
How do these fit with the Partner Services Security and Confidentiality Guidelines?
These replace the data security and confidentiality guidelines contained in Appendix D, "Guiding Principles and Standards for Record Keeping and Data Collection, Management, and Security for Partner Services Programs for HIV Infection, Syphilis, Gonorrhea, and Chlamydial Infection" of the Recommendations for Partner Services Programs for HIV Infection, Syphilis, Gonorrhea, and Chlamydial Infection.
Do these guidelines apply to CDC-funded prevention activities?
All programs funded by NCHHSTP will be required to implement these guidelines for personally identifiable or potentially personally identifiable information.
Beginning in 2012, adhering to the Guidelines is being incorporated into all core funding announcements.
Surveillance programs, prevention programs, and programs who receive surveillance or program data are within the scope of these Guidelines.
What are the minimum standards in this document?
Should the document differentiate between the minimum and the ideal?
The Guidelines are divided into five main topic areas and corresponding standards.
All standards listed are required and every program must meet these.
However, they are broadly stated to allow flexibility for implementation.
Guiding questions, notes, and criteria are provided to assist programs in determining whether the standards are met.
Will training materials be available to help programs implement the Guidelines?
Training materials, webinars, toolkits, and other materials will be made available and posted on the Program Collaboration and Services Integration website.
The current Appendix contains information to support initial and periodic assessments.
Will CDC provide monitoring and/or technical assistance for programs implementing the Guidelines?
Some technical assistance (TA) in monitoring and/or conducting initial assessments of data security and confidentiality protections may be available on a limited basis from NCHHSTP.
Information regarding other potential resources will be made available by surveillance programs in each Division.
Do employees working in viral hepatitis, STD, and TB programs need to have the same training for security and confidentiality as employees working in an HIV program?
All health department staff in HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB programs with the same responsibilities and access to Personally Identifiable Information (PII) should have the same training.
Other employees or contractors (custodial, security, etc.) may have more general security training.
Areas may find it helpful to design training modules based on roles, responsibilities, and access to PII.
Will CDC funding be available to support security and confidentiality activities, including physical environment changes?
CDC is committed to assisting programs in meeting the Guidelines through TA and funding to the extent possible.
In 2011–12, supplemental funding was made available through HIV Surveillance Funding Announcements.
Additional financial support may be forthcoming through core prevention funding announcements from each Division.
The new Guidelines will be referenced as a requirement of funding when new funding announcements are issued.
Please work closely with your CDC Project Officers for your specific needs.
To what extent are programs not funded by NCHHSTP required to implement these Guidelines?
Programs that are not funded by NCHHSTP are not required to follow these Guidelines.
Programs would only be required to implement these Guidelines if a funded program shared data with an unfunded program.
When do the NCHHSTP Data Security and Confidentiality Guidelines go into effect?
CDC expects these Guidelines to be part of all newly developed cooperative agreements and funding announcements.
The Guidelines will go into effect when they are referenced and become a requirement in new funding announcements.
What happens if we do not (or cannot afford to) implement these Guidelines across all of our programs?
You should contact your CDC Project Officer as soon as possible to discuss any issues or barriers to implementation.
If we have one set of guidelines in the department for all four programs, does that mean we have to all have the same set of standard operating procedures (SOPs)?
Different programs may have different SOPs, all of which follow the same data security and confidentiality guidelines.
If a program currently uses several Microsoft Access databases for data back-ups that do not meet the encryption standards listed in the Data Security and Confidentiality Guidelines, what will happen if these Guidelines are implemented?
If these databases contain identifying, or potentially identifying information, they need to be modified, encrypted, or otherwise destroyed in accordance with locally developed policies.
Do all programs have to share all of their surveillance data?
Jurisdiction-specific decisions are based on local priorities, resources, need, etc.
However, all NCHHSTP-funded programs are encouraged to utilize their data for public health action and to share data when appropriate to ensure public health and program effectiveness.
How does this affect state health departments who work with local health departments and/or community-based organizations (CBOs)?
Are these Guidelines intended to apply to sub-grantees as well as the state health departments?
NCHHSTP-funded programs should work collaboratively with local health departments and other public health partners to ensure that data security and confidentiality policies and procedures exist in the other programs that conform to these Guidelines.
State programs that subcontract directly with local health department programs may include compliance with these Guidelines in their contractual arrangements.
Local health departments that share data with state health departments should take steps to share data using the secure methods outlined in this document.
Local health departments can also hold annual trainings on these policies and procedures, and the NCHHSTP-funded programs can assist in these efforts both in establishing SOPs and trainings.
NCHHSTP-funded programs may provide assistance to private providers and laboratories in implementing secure methods for reporting case data.
Providers and laboratories should be encouraged to establish policies and procedures and hold regular trainings on data security and confidentiality.
Who is responsible for the data provided by the program to the county and tribal levels?
The overall responsible party (ORP) ensures the quality and safety of the data provided by the funded program to the county and tribal levels.
Are local health departments expected to have ORPs even if they do not receive direct funding from CDC but receive funds from and/or work with their state health department?
However, they are expected to have a point of contact for all matters concerning data security and confidentiality.
Do the Guidelines apply to all contractors or just those with a contract for surveillance activities?
All persons who have access to data from NCHHSTP-funded programs must abide by the principles and standards of the Guidelines.
Do the Guidelines apply if an agency has a contract that is not surveillance-specific but has data that the department would interpret as being surveillance data—even if they did not collect it as surveillance data and would not define it as such?
If the agency is collaborating with the health department on a project or effort involving surveillance data, they must maintain the same level of data security as the health department.
Can a state apply these standards to all notifiable diseases if they wish to expand their use to non-NCHHSTP-funded programs?
All public health programs could benefit from following consistent, documented security, and confidentiality guidelines for public health data.
Do HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB programs in an agency need to have a separate secure room for employees and to store this data?
Each program does not necessarily need to have a separate secure room, but they do need to house data in a secure physical area with limited access.
Some areas may have a secure section of a floor or an entire floor.
The guidance for conducting an initial assessment for data security and confidentiality protections in the Guidelines may help you enhance your current space if needed.
A checklist is also provided in the Appendix of the Guidelines.
Why is it necessary to have a secure area?
Can't we assume that state and local health department offices are secure and that we can talk openly?
It is necessary to have a secure area as outlined in the Guidelines for accessing or otherwise using PII.
This includes areas for viewing data, discussing case information, counseling clients/patients and other work related activities.
Assumptions cannot be made about the security of any location without an assessment.
Most health department offices (state, county, or local) have some areas accessible to the general public, clients, or other non-employees.
Conducting an initial assessment will assist staff with identifying possible risks to be mitigated.
Do HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB programs need to have a separate written policy for data security and confidentiality?
It's an agency-level decision whether to have one integrated document that covers all programs or individual policy documents for each program.
All policies, however, should adhere to the NCHHSTP Data Security and Confidentiality Guidelines.
Do the Guidelines apply to the use of surveillance or program data for research?
Yes but there may be additional requirements.
While the use of public health data for research may be permissible, IRB review is recommended and, in many instances, required.
Questions regarding distinguishing research activities from practice are beyond the scope of these Guidelines and programs should be directed to applicable guidance related to the human subjects regulations and other guidance (e.g., the Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists' document on Public Health Practice vs.
Research ).
Do the HIPAA requirements related to data access (e.g., logs, audits, etc.) apply to any data shared?
Public health data used for surveillance and other public health uses are specifically excluded from HIPAA requirements for auditing access in individual medical records.
See the HHS FAQ Web page for more information.
If the health department shares surveillance data with providers, does it then become a medical record subject to applicable laws?
While there may be some clinical data contained in surveillance data shared with providers, surveillance data are not medical records and should not be treated as such.
Is the medical provider able to access state surveillance records in making care decisions?
In limited instances, yes.
However, providers should utilize the most accurate and timely clinical information in making decisions and surveillance data are not typically the timeliest information available.
Even laboratory results should be available directly from a laboratory more quickly than from a surveillance program.
Are agency personnel required to shred documents to be destroyed or is it acceptable to use a third party document company?
Agency personnel are not required to shred documents themselves—contracting with a document shredding service may be an option for some programs.
If this is done, it is advisable to make arrangements to have the documents shredded on-site or elsewhere with program staff present at least the first time the service is used.
In all cases, a contracted shredding or disposal company must be bonded and due diligence needs to be taken in their selection.
Health departments often send faxes to a variety of different provider's practices and hospitals.
Completing case reports as faxes are a common way of reporting in some health departments.
How can this be done without providing some PII?
Are they now forbidden to use faxes?
Use of fax machines for transmission of public health information containing PII is permitted, but discouraged.
If you must send a fax, specific guidance is provided on ways you can minimize risk in Appendix F of the Guidelines.
In many states, viral hepatitis and TB data are housed in National Electronic Disease Surveillance System (NEDSS), or NEDSS-like, applications.
In general, NEDSS applications are networked and many are also internet-based applications.
How do we ensure these applications meet standards for IT practices included in the Guidelines?
Conducting an initial assessment would help ensure that these applications meet standards for IT practices included in the Guidelines.
The initial assessment process includes other systems and documents users, access, roles, rights, availability, etc.
in these NEDSS or NEDSS-like applications in the same manner it would assess any other system.
The state electronic disease reporting system allows local administrators to decide who has access to the system and their security roles for certain disease groups.
Would this be allowed under these Guidelines?
State and local SOPs would still be in place for specific systems.
CDC would expect role-based access to continue to be in place and for the administrators to follow these Guidelines.
Do these Guidelines suggest that web-based surveillance systems are not secure?
Web-based surveillance systems cannot all be classified as fully secure or not secure.
These systems, as with other data sources and/or data repositories, must be looked at on an individual basis.
These systems should undergo assessments to ensure they meet the security standards.
This should include review of access, roles, rights, procedures, etc., similar to other systems.
For instance, access from a provider's office or lab for reporting may be secured through various means (VPN, digital certificates, etc.), as can access by a field worker checking on potential new reports or updates.
However, access from a coffee shop, fast food establishment, or other Wi-Fi hotspot must be prevented.
More and more systems are using advanced technologies which are not mentioned in the Guidelines.
What about future technologies?
Predicting technology advancements in the present time is impossible.
Any new technology or advancement must be examined with due diligence, weighing benefits and mitigating risks.
It would be advantageous to establish a policy for implementing new technologies that includes some type of requirements for program review and approval, in addition to any IT review and approval.
As more and more areas institute telework as an option, can surveillance data be accessed remotely?
With appropriate precautions, policies, and training in place, remote access is possible.
Appendix G of the Guidelines contains requirements to be met in a telework environment, as well as other remote work locations.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All APRIL 23, 2024 Program Collaboration Service Integration KEY POINTS NCHHSTP Program Collaboration and Service Integration (PCSI) is a collaborative public health approach to blend activities to improve health outcomes for those in need.
Learn goals and key definitions used in PCSI.
Overview Program collaboration and service integration (PCSI) is a public health approach through which public health programs and partners collaborate to organize and blend interrelated activities and services for those in need, thus improving public health outcomes.
Goals The National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP) aims to improve effectiveness and efficiency of funded prevention and control programs, with shared capacity that can be used across programs.
NCHHSTP will support and promote better collaboration across divisions in design and implementation of surveillance, research, communication, and prevention programs to support service integration and to utilize Center and partner resources most effectively.
NCHHSTP will look broadly across its programs, and work with our partners, to discover new and innovative ways to collaborate and use resources wisely and efficiently, taking advantage of multiple disciplines and shared knowledge and promoting holistic approaches to health protection.
Definitions Program collaboration and service integration A mechanism for organizing and blending interrelated health issues, activities, and prevention strategies to facilitate comprehensive delivery of services.
Program collaboration A mutually beneficial and well-defined relationship entered into by two or more programs, organizations, or organizational units to achieve common goals.
The collaborative relationship usually includes a commitment to mutual relationships and goals, a jointly developed structure, shared responsibility, mutual authority and accountability for success, and sharing of resources and rewards.
Service integration A distinct method of service delivery that provides persons with seamless services from multiple programs or areas within programs with­out repeated registration procedures, waiting period or other administrative barriers.
It differs from system coordination, in which services from multiple agencies are provided but persons may have to visit different locations and register separately for each agency's programs to obtain these services.
Levels of service integration: Nonintegrated Services (Level 1): Prevention, treatment, or care services provided for a single condition (HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, or TB) by a single program.
Core Integrated Services (Level 2): Integration of two or more CDC-recommended prevention, treatment or care services across HIV, STD, viral hepatitis, or TB infections.
Expanded Integrated Services (Level 3): Integration of multiple prevention, treat­ment, and care services for HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB into general health and social services.
CDC guidelines, standards, or recommendations for the delivery of these services may or may not exist.
Syndemics Population-level clustering of social and health problems.
KEEP READING: NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach ON THIS PAGE Overview Goals Definitions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention View All Related Topics: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention Didn't find the information you were looking for?
Health Topics A-Z Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All OCTOBER 16, 2024 2022 ARPE Contact Investigations Report PURPOSE This Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) report summarizes national contact investigation efforts related to tuberculosis (TB) cases diagnosed in 2022, as reported to CDC through August 20, 2024, and summary data from 2018-2021 as reported to CDC through August 20, 2024.
About the report Follow-up examination and treatment of contacts to patients with tuberculosis (TB) is a national TB prevention and elimination strategic priority in the United States.
Each year, TB programs report results of their contact investigation activities to CDC by entering the data into the Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) form via the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project performance-monitoring tool.
ARPE data provide the only national-level data on contact investigations and are reported in three categories: Sputum smear-positive Sputum smear-negative/culture-positive Other The data are also used by awardees as a tool to evaluate and coordinate TB prevention activities.
Data summary In 2022, there were 3,406 acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive and 1,682 AFB smear-negative, culture-positive cases for investigation in the United States.
The number of sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive TB cases identified in 2022 (3,406) was higher than the annual number identified in 2021 (3,227), 2020 (2,879), and 2018 (3,398) but lower than the number reported in 2019 (3,481).
Elicitation of contacts The number of contacts increased in 2022 (33,576) as compared to 2021 (28,736) but remained below the numbers reported during the 2018-2020 period (35,918-53,783).
The percentage of cases with contacts elicited in 2022 was 89.9% (3,061/3,406 cases) compared with annual percentages achieved during 2018-2021 (range: 91.8% - 94.5%), with all years falling below the 2025 National Performance Target of 100%.
Evaluation of contacts Among the 33,576 contacts elicited to smear-positive cases in 2022, 24,339 (72.5%) were evaluated.
Evaluation of contacts to smear-positive cases in 2022 remained below the 2025 National Performance Target of 94%, as were performance levels achieved annually from 2018-2021 (range: 75.7% -78.7%).
Diagnosis and treatment of latent TB infection Of those who were evaluated, 4,716 (19.4%) were diagnosed with latent TB infection.
Among those diagnosed with latent TB infection, 76.2% (3,592) initiated treatment, of whom 79.7% (2,862) completed treatment.
Latent TB infection treatment initiation and completion performance remains below the 2025 National TB Performance Targets of 92% and 93%, respectively.
Additionally, among persons diagnosed with latent TB infection and determined to be contacts of smear-positive TB cases in 2022, contacts choosing to stop treatment accounted for 33.6% of those not completing treatment, while contacts lost to follow-up accounted for 39.4%.
Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Appendix A.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum Acid-fast Bacillus (AFB) Smear-Positive TB Cases, 2018-2022A Expand All Table 1: Counts of Smear-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 2: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 3: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Expand All Figure 1 Additional information Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Expand All Figure 2 Additional information Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Expand All Figure 3 Additional information Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Expand All Figure 4 Additional information Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB-smear positive TB cases Expand All Figure 5 Appendix B: Sputum smear-negative, culture positive TB cases Appendix B.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Sputum AFB Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive TB Cases, 2018-2022B Expand All Table 4: Counts of Smear-Negative, Culture-Positive Cases and Contacts Table 5: Reasons Contacts Stopped Latent TB Infection Treatment Table 6: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Appendix C: Other* Appendix C.
Counts and Indices for Investigation of Other* Cases, 2018-2022C * Other: Contact investigations not captured in investigating sputum acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive or sputum AFB smear-negative, culture-positive.
For example: Associate-contact or source-case investigations done because of a child with TB disease.
Expand All Table 7: Counts of Contacts Table 8: Reasons Contacts Stopped Treatment for Latent TB Infection Table 9: Contact Investigation Evaluation Indices Resources Aggregate Reports for Tuberculosis Program Evaluation (ARPE) ARPE Follow-Up and Treatment of Contacts of TB Patients Form Download ON THIS PAGE About the report Data summary Appendix A: Sputum smear-positive TB cases Figure 1: Proportion of TB patients with contacts elicited Figure 2: Evaluation of contacts Figure 3: Latent TB infection treatment initiation Figure 4: Latent TB infection treatment completion Figure 5: Number of contacts to AFB-smear positive TB cases Appendix B: Sputum smear-negative, culture positive TB cases Appendix C: Other* Show More SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices Organizational Chart About NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities A Day in the Life at NCHHSTP National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention (NCHHSTP) Leaders Budget and Funding Letters from the Director Connections Newsletters Partners and Programs Tuberculosis Advisory Council Careers NCHHSTP EIS Program VIEW ALL Related Topics: HIV | Viral Hepatitis | Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) | Tuberculosis (TB) | Health Disparities in HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis | NCHHSTP Newsroom View All NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach AUG.
28, 2024 Per a court order, HHS is required to restore this website to its version as of 12:00 AM on January 29, 2025.
Information on this page may be modified and/or removed in the future subject to the terms of the court’s order and implemented consistent with applicable law.
Any information on this page promoting gender ideology is extremely inaccurate and disconnected from truth.
The Trump Administration rejects gender ideology due to the harms and divisiveness it causes.
This page does not reflect reality and therefore the Administration and this Department reject it.
PURPOSE To seek a more holistic approach to individual and population health and to improve efficiency in providing services for the diseases and conditions addressed by NCHHSTP that share similarly affected populations, geographic locations, and social and structural determinants.
Syndemic approach Our vision at NCHHSTP is a future free of HIV, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and tuberculosis (TB).
We work each day to protect and promote health for all people in all communities, yet our work is often segmented by disease or condition.
Many of the diseases and conditions addressed by NCHHSTP share similar affected populations, geographic locations, and social and structural determinants.
Because of these overlaps, some groups of people are affected by these infections more than others.
NCHHSTP is moving toward an approach that recognizes these commonalities, while also acknowledging the unique aspects of disease prevention.
Most commonly, a syndemic is defined as a "population-level clustering of social and health problems.
The criteria of a syndemic are: Two (or more) diseases or health conditions cluster within a specific population; Contextual and social factors create the conditions in which two (or more) diseases or health conditions cluster; and The clustering of diseases results in adverse disease interaction, either biologic or social or behavioral, increasing the health burden of affected populations." At NCHHSTP, we also think of the potential positive opportunities that a syndemic approach provides, including a more holistic approach to individual and population health and improved efficiency in providing services.
NCHHSTP priority syndemics HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, and TB infections are often endpoints of similar upstream drivers that can lead to or interact with disease and exacerbate negative health outcomes.
The NCHHSTP syndemics are driven by societal, structural, and intermediary outcomes that lead to clustering of HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, and TB.
The inter-connected syndemics that NCHHSTP has identified and prioritized include: HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, overdose, and substance use HIV, STIs and hepatitis B HIV and TB TB and hepatitis B NCHHSTP's syndemic approach NCHHSTP's Syndemic Approach recognizes the interrelated health and social challenges affecting the diseases and health outcomes we work to address.
We can leverage the strong foundation of the Program Collaboration and Service Integration (PCSI) initiative from 2009 to build NCHHSTP's Syndemic Approach and address the NCHHSTP-related syndemics through priority strategies and foundational pillars that work toward more holistic service delivery for populations affected by multiple diseases and conditions with the goal of improving health and quality of life for people with and at risk for HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, or TB.
KEEP READING NCHHSTP PCSI White Paper NCHHSTP has identified five high-impact, priority strategies to begin to advance our Syndemic Approach and to embed this approach in how NCHHSTP operates.
Provide multi-disease services in venues by staff who are able to address more than one infection and link to care, prevention, and social and structural services, as needed.
Multi-pathogen diagnostic testing strategies that develop and expand diagnostic and other technological solutions to conduct tests for multiple infections at the same encounter.
Case investigation and outbreak response activities that address multiple infections through an integrated response strategy.
Health communications that use integrated disease and prevention communication messages, products and campaigns.
Integrated and aligned data systems that provide the structure and processes to collect, report and monitor multiple health outcomes using consistent variables.
Foundational pillars NCHHSTP's syndemic approach to public health.
To implement NCHHSTP's Syndemic Approach successfully and achieve a more holistic public health delivery model, it is important to not only identify priority strategies, but also to address and incorporate critical foundational pillars: People: Reach priority populations, Places: Implement approach in the right geographic locations and venue types, Policy: Support effective policy interventions that address social and structural factors, and Science: Conduct research to advance syndemic approaches People: reach priority populations The NCHHSTP syndemics are compounded by intersecting disparities that drive poor health outcomes and increase burden of disease.
Health disparities may occur by sex, race or ethnicity, education, income, disability, geographic location, and sexual orientation, and are directly related to social determinants of health like poverty, unequal access to health care, stigma, and racism.
The priority populations for the NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach, identified below, vary depending on the infection concerned due to the different epidemiological, biological, social and structural determinants that affect each infection.
For example, persons born outside the United States are priority populations for hepatitis B and TB, but not chlamydia; the racial and ethnic populations experiencing disparities varies greatly by infection, and adolescents are not a priority population for TB.
Gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men Persons who inject or use drugs Racial and ethnic populations experiencing disparities within these syndemics Adolescents Persons born outside of the United States Persons who spent time in jails, youth correctional facilities, or prisons Persons experiencing homelessness Persons who exchange sex for money or drugs Pregnant women Places: implement approach in the right locations and venue types Implementing the syndemic strategies in the right places—particularly where geographic burden intersects with venues that serve priority populations—is essential for implementing a successful syndemic approach.
Specific venue types that the NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach should prioritize include HIV/STI/sexual health clinics, community health centers, syringe services programs, substance use disorder treatment centers, correctional facilities, homeless shelters, emergency departments, and schools.
Expanding the use of virtual and other alternative spaces may reduce barriers (stigma, transportation, or work/childcare schedules, etc.) that keep people away from more traditional venues that require in-person visits.
Telemedicine, virtual counseling, self-collection of specimens, and home-based testing can allow for opportunities to provide interventions for multiple diseases and conditions.
Policy: support effective policy interventions that address social and structural factors This NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach also supports creating policies, structures, and processes to address the underlying social and structural factors affecting priority populations.
Factors, such as systemic racism, discrimination, homophobia, misogyny, poverty, xenophobia, and other systemic biases reinforce existing disparities, contribute to development of syndemics and need to be identified and addressed for each priority population and place.
For policies to be effective they will need to create multiple opportunities for individuals to receive culturally and linguistically responsive prevention, care, and treatment.
This will require thoughtful partnerships both within and outside public health.
Science: conduct research to advance syndemic approaches New diagnostics, therapeutics, and prevention modalities have revolutionized public health.
NCHHSTP has a key role in moving science from the bench to the field and ensuring the most impactful research is supported and equitably delivered to prevent infection and improve equity.
Advances in areas such as multi-infection diagnostics are needed to increase our understanding of NCHHSTP syndemics and improve how we work to address them.
Guiding principles and enabling operational processes The NCHHSTP Strategic Plan's guiding principles of high impact prevention, cross-sector collaboration, and equity, along with the corresponding operational processes, provide the basis of NCHHSTP's priority strategies and foundational pillars.
We work to identify and modify or develop operational structures, processes, and policies that enable and support the NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach.
These structures and processes should address key challenges including unclear allowable uses of funds, guidance, prioritization, and internal capacity.
Through our NCHHSTP Syndemic Approach, we are supporting our public health partners by implementing a more holistic public health syndemic strategy that includes: Implementing priority interventions, Putting people first, Investing in the places most affected and most able to reach those in need, Supporting effective policy interventions and conducting research to advance syndemic approaches, and Guiding our work in high impact prevention, cross-sector collaboration, equity and enabling operational principles and processes Working together with partners, NCHHSTP's Syndemic Approach can help achieve the goals of improving the health of persons living with or potentially at risk for HIV, viral hepatitis, STIs, and TB; preventing new infections; reducing disparities; and improving health equity.
ON THIS PAGE Syndemic approach NCHHSTP priority syndemics NCHHSTP's syndemic approach Foundational pillars Guiding principles and enabling operational processes SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC NCHHSTP CDC's National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention is committed to a future free of HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and Tuberculosis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 SEARCH Data Tables About the Data Executive Commentary Communication Resources VIEW ALL About the Data In 2023, reported U.S.
tuberculosis disease cases and incidence rates increased for a third year.
Learn More For Professionals Data Tables Access data tables with information on cases of tuberculosis disease reported to CDC since 1993.
Executive Commentary CDC describes cases of tuberculosis disease in the United States reported in 2023.
Learn more National Data Reporting Area Data Risk Factors Demographics Tuberculosis Treatment and Case Outcomes Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis Disease Molecular Surveillance Featured Resources Slide Set Download the slide set of data visualizations for Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023.
Download Communication Resources CDC has communication resources for Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023.
Technical Notes Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Acknowledgments Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 describes cases of tuberculosis (TB) disease reported to CDC during 1993–2023.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Program Collaboration and Service Integration EXPLORAR TEMAS BUSCAR Salud pública Program Collaboration Service Integration Data Security & Confidentiality VER TODO Temas relacionados: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention Ver todo Temas relacionados: National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and Tuberculosis Prevention ¿No encontró la información que buscaba?
Temas de salud de la A a la Z Program Collaboration and Service Integration Program Collaboration and Service Integration improves public health outcomes by organizing interrelated activities and services for those in need.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All Site Index Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 Didn't find the information you were looking for?
Health Topics A-Z Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All NOVEMBER 15, 2024 Archived TB Data Reports WHAT TO KNOW CDC TB data reports (Surveillance, State and City, and ARPE reports) are archived after two years.
Use the links below to access older reports on CDC's archive platforms.
TB Surveillance Reports Archived digital reports Reported Tuberculosis in the United States was published exclusively online beginning with the 2018 report.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2021 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2020 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2019 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 Archived print reports Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2017 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2016 CDC Stacks - TB Surveillance Reports Older reports are available on CDC stacks.
TB Surveillance Slide Sets Archived slide sets 2021 Surveillance Slide Set (68 slides) 2020 Surveillance Slide Set (75 slides) 2019 Surveillance Slide Set (62 slides) 2018 Surveillance Slide Set (45 slides) 2017 Surveillance Slide Set (30 slides) 2016 Surveillance Slide Set (36 slides) TB State and City Reports Archived digital reports TB State and City Reports were published exclusively online beginning with the 2018 report.
2020 State and City Report 2019 State and City Report 2018 State and City Report Archived print reports 2017 State and City Report 2016 State and City Report National TB Indicators: 2015 State Comparison National TB Indicators: 2014 State Comparison National TB Indicators: 2013 State Comparison Aggregate Program Evaluation Reports 2020 Contact Investigation Report 2020 Targeted Testing Report ON THIS PAGE TB Surveillance Reports TB Surveillance Slide Sets TB State and City Reports Aggregate Program Evaluation Reports SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Data Tables About the Data Executive Commentary Communication Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone OCTOBER 31, 2024 Acknowledgments PURPOSE CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination prepared this report.
CDC gratefully acknowledges the contributions of CDC staff as well as the state and local health departments throughout the United States and U.S.-affiliated reporting areas.
Authors Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch CDR Jonathan M.
Wortham, MD, Chief Justin B.
Davis, MPH, Deputy Chief Surveillance Team CDR Rebekah J.
Stewart, PhD, MPH, FNP, Lead Ryan J.
Augustine, MPH Pei-Jean I.
Feng, MPH Divia P.
Forbes, MPH Lauren A.
Lambert, MPH Erin Lee Miller, PhD Robert H.
Pratt, BS LaTweika A.T.
Salmon-Trejo, MPH Molecular Epidemiology and Outbreak Investigations Team Noah Schwartz, MD, Acting Lead J.
Steve Kammerer, MBA William L.
Walker, DVM, PhD, DACVPM (Epidemiology) Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Nickolas DeLuca, PhD, Chief Leeanna Allen, MPH, Lead Meredith Moore, MPH Chitvan Yadav Tim LaHayeA Other Division of Tuberculosis Elimination staff who contributed to the production of this publication: Data Management, Statistics and Evaluation Branch Andrew Hill, PhD, Chief Sandy Price, PMP Cynthia AdamsA Devin Cowans Katrina WilliamsA Stacey ParkerA Kira McDanielA Field Services Branch Laboratory Branch Office of the Director Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP Carla A.
Winston, PhD, MA CDC organization Mandy K.
Cohen, MD, MPH, Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Nirav D.
Shah, MD, JD, Principal Deputy Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Debra Houry, MD, MPH, Deputy Director for Program and Science/Chief Medical Officer Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Jonathan Mermin, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS, RET), Director National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP, Director Division of Tuberculosis Elimination Nickolas DeLuca, PhD, Chief Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Andrew Hill, PhD, Chief Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Terence L.
Chorba, MD, DSc, Chief Field Services Branch Angela M.
Starks, PhD, Chief Laboratory Branch CDR Jonathan M.
Wortham, MD, Chief Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch CDR Rebekah J.
Stewart, PhD, MPH, FNP, Lead Surveillance Team Suggested citation Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2024.
For more information, contact:‎ Division of Tuberculosis Elimination National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road NE, MS US12-4, Atlanta, GA 30329 Phone: 404-639-8120 Internet Address:  RELATED PAGES Executive Commentary Technical Notes Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C VIEW ALL Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Communication Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 describes cases of tuberculosis (TB) disease reported to CDC during 1993–2023.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Data Tables About the Data Executive Commentary Communication Resources VIEW ALL View All For Everyone OCTOBER 30, 2024 Appendix C PURPOSE Appendix C provides information on types of genotyping data, how the data is collected and used, and surveillance coverage for the 2023 edition of Reported Tuberculosis in the United States.
Types of data Tuberculosis (TB) genotyping is a laboratory-based approach used to analyze the genetic material (i.e., DNA) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium that causes TB disease.
The total genetic content is referred to as the genome.
Specific sections of the M.
tuberculosis genome form distinct genetic patterns that help distinguish different strains of M.
tuberculosis.
Conventional TB genotyping examines the location, number, and presence of different types of spacer or repetitive DNA patterns.
The areas of the genome examined in TB genotyping are different from those related to drug resistance.
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS)-based TB genotyping examines 70%–90% of the bacterial genome.
How information is collected In 1996, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) started the National Tuberculosis Genotyping Surveillance Network (NTGSN).
NTGSN was a 5-year initiative that established the utility of genotyping in TB control efforts1.
In 2004, using knowledge gained from NTGSN and associated studies2, CDC established the National Tuberculosis Genotyping Service (NTGS).
CDC funded national genotyping laboratories to genotype ≥1 M.
tuberculosis isolate from each culture-positive TB case reported in the United States3.
TB control programs can use NTGS at no cost to patients, health care providers, or health departments.
NTGS participation is voluntary, with each program determining how to use genotyping data for its TB control activities.
Since 2004, NTGS and its partners genotyped approximately 180,000 M.
tuberculosis isolates.
In 2010, CDC launched the Tuberculosis Genotyping Information Management System (TB GIMS), a secure web-based application available to reporting areas including: All 50 U.S.
states, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S.
Virgin Islands, and U.S.-affiliated Pacific Islands.
TB GIMS makes genotyping data available to users.
It also facilitates linking TB genotyping data to patient surveillance records from the National TB Surveillance System.
Key features of TB GIMS include: Queries of a database of genotypes and clusters, Data quality checks, Aggregate reports, and Outbreak detection tools.
As of September 2024, TB GIMS has 623 users among state, tribal, local, territorial, and federal partners.
In 2018, CDC established the National Tuberculosis Molecular Surveillance Center (NTMSC).
NTMSC performs whole-genome sequencing (WGS) on ≥1 isolate from every culture-positive TB case in the United States.
In July 2022, NTMSC transitioned from conventional genotyping (e.g., GENType) to WGS-based genotyping and the resulting whole-genome multilocus sequence type (i.e., wgMLSType).
However, existing data from conventional genotyping remains available in TB GIMS for jurisdictions to reference for TB prevention and control activities.
How the data are used When recent TB transmission occurs, the persons with TB disease often have a matching TB genotype.
Likewise, persons who have a matching genotype are more likely to be related by transmission than persons without a matching genotype.
The connection might be due to recent TB transmission or a previously acquired TB infection in the remote past.
Genotyping results, when combined with epidemiologic data, can help public health experts identify persons with TB disease involved in the same chain of transmission.
This information adds value to TB control activities in a number of ways.
Person-level applications of genotyping Contact investigations Using genotyping in contact investigations can help support or refute connections between ≥2 persons with TB disease (i.e., epidemiologic linkages).
Public health experts might or might not have established connections between the persons during contact investigations.
Cluster investigations In cluster investigations, genotyping can suggest connections that contact investigations did not establish.
Public health experts should investigate these connections further.
Other applications Distinguish relapse TB disease from new TB infection (i.e., reinfection) among persons with recurrent TB disease.
Detect and investigate potential false-positive culture results.
Keep in mind‎ Genotyping data reported through TB GIMS (i.e., wgMLSType) are intended for public health surveillance and investigations; these data are not intended for use in clinical decision making.
Population-level applications of genotyping Outbreak detection, assessment, and monitoring Identify genotype clusters that could represent an outbreak using geospatial or other analyses.
Assess the genetic relatedness of isolates among cases believed to be part of an outbreak.
Define the scope of potential outbreaks by identifying all presumed cases in an area with a matching genotype.
Monitor outbreaks for new cases.
Genotyping-based cluster detection CDC identifies genotype-matched clusters using geospatial analysis to identify unexpected clustering of TB cases within a defined time period.
CDC bases its primary cluster detection method on identifying higher than expected geospatial concentrations of a TB genotype in a specific county compared with the national distribution of that genotype over a 3-year period.
This cluster detection method calculates a log-likelihood ratio (LLR) statistic.
Clusters with higher LLRs represent greater geospatial concentrations than clusters with lower LLRs.
Higher LLRs might indicate recent transmission of TB.
The alert level and changes in alert levels can help TB programs prioritize TB genotype clusters for further investigation and possible intervention.
This can help to identify outbreaks of TB disease.
CDC assesses characteristics of alerted clusters and communicates findings for priority clusters back to TB programs.
National TB genotyping surveillance coverage in the United States Genotyping surveillance coverage refers to the percentage of culture-positive TB cases with a genotyped M.
tuberculosis isolate.
High levels of coverage can provide a better understanding of the molecular epidemiology of TB transmission within a specific geographic area and nationally.
Outbreak detection algorithms identify unexpected geospatial concentrations of persons who have isolates with the same genotype.
Therefore, high coverage levels help decrease the likelihood of failing to alert clusters of TB disease that may be of concern.
The genotyping surveillance coverage was 96.0% in 2023; the National Tuberculosis Indicators Project target for the United States was 100% for 2023.
Reminder‎ Use caution when interpreting genotyping data in areas where coverage is low.
Genotyping terminology From 2009 to 2022, NTGS defined a genotype as a unique combination of: Spacer oligonucleotide typing (spoligotype) and 24-locus mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit–variable number tandem repeat typing (MIRU–VNTR) results.
Each unique combination of results was assigned a GENType designated as G followed by 5 digits.
The 5 digits were assigned sequentially to every genotype identified in the United States (e.g., G00162).
Since 2018, genotyping has included WGS-based methods that compare about 70% of the M.
tuberculosis genome.
Nationally, isolates with ≥99.7% of their loci (i.e., genes) matching are considered clustered.
They are sequentially assigned a wgMLSType designated by MTBC followed by 6-digits (e.g., MTBC000123).
Otherwise, the isolate is designated as "MTBCunique." Resource‎ Visit the Glossary of Tuberculosis Terms for a list of commonly used terms and definitions.
Resources Executive Commentary About the Data Tuberculosis Genotyping ON THIS PAGE Types of data How information is collected How the data are used National TB genotyping surveillance coverage in the United States Genotyping terminology Resources RELATED PAGES Executive Commentary Technical Notes Appendix A Appendix B Acknowledgments VIEW ALL Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Acknowledgments SOURCES PRINT SHARE Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 describes cases of tuberculosis (TB) disease reported to CDC during 1993–2023.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All NOVEMBER 4, 2024 2021 State and City TB Report: Goals for Health Equity KEY POINTS CDC works to integrate health equity into all agency public health work with the goal to reduce health disparities.
Achieving these goals will reduce health inequities overall and bring the U.S.
Overview The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has launched an agency-wide CORE strategy to integrate health equity into all agency public health work with the goal to reduce health disparities.
In an effort to incorporate this strategy, CDC developed three goals that focus on populations who experience health disparities related to TB disease.
The goal is to reduce TB incidence in these populations by approximately 20% between 2019 and 2025.
Goal 1: Decrease the TB incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Asian-American persons from 26.2 per 100,000 (2019) to 20.8 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Asian American persons closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born Asian populations (1.5 per 100,000 in 2019).
Goal 2: Decrease the TB incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Hispanic/Latino persons from 10.2 per 100,000 (2019) to 8.2 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among non-U.S.–born Hispanic and Latino persons closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino populations (1.5 per 100,000 in 2019).
Goal 3: Decrease the TB incidence rate among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Black or African American persons from 2.6 per 100,000 (2019) to 2.0 per 100,000 by December 31, 2025.
This goal will reduce health inequities by bringing the incidence rate among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Black or African American persons closer to the TB rate for U.S.-born non-Hispanic White persons (0.4 per 100,000 in 2019).
Achieving these goals will reduce health inequities overall and bring the U.S.
About the data In the case of incidence, the goal for states and cities is to be at or below the national target and the national average, because lower incidence of TB is the aim.
State and cities are grouped into thirds based on the number of TB cases reported in 2021.
There are no 2025 National Performance Targets for non-U.S.–born Asian-Americans or non-U.S.–born Hispanic/Latino persons.
The 2025 National Performance Target and health equity goal for TB incidence for U.S.-born non-Hispanic Blacks or African American persons were calculated using different methodologies.
TB incidence among non–U.S.-born non-Hispanic Asian American persons 22 states and 2 cities met the 2025 health equity goal of 20.8 or less and were below the 2021 national average of 22.3 per 100,000 non-U.S.
born Asian American persons.
6 states and 1 city were above the 2025 health equity goal of 20.8 but were below the national average of 22.3.
20 states and 6 cities reported incidence above the 2025 health equity goal and national average.
Expand All Figure 11: TB incidence, Non–U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Asian American Persons (Map) Figure 12: TB incidence, Non–U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Asian American Persons (Chart) TB incidence among non–U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino persons 14 states and 1 city met the 2025 health equity goal of 8.2 per 100,000 non-U.S.
born Hispanic/Latino persons and were below the 2021 national average of 9.4 per 100,000 non-U.S.
born Hispanic/Latino persons.
5 states were above the health equity goal of 8.2 per 100,000 non-U.S.
born Hispanic/Latino persons but were below the national average of 9.4 per 100,000 non-U.S.
born Hispanic/Latino persons.
28 states and 6 cities reported incidence above the 2025 health equity goal and national average.
Expand All Figure 13: TB incidence, Non–U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino Persons (Map) Figure 14: TB incidence, Non–U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino Persons (Chart) TB incidence among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Blacks or African American persons In the case of incidence, the goal for states and cities is to be at or below the national target (1.0), the Health Equity Goal (2.0) and the national average (2.1), because lower incidence of TB is the aim.
9 states met the 2025 national target at or below 1.0 per 100,000 U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Black or African American Persons.
15 states and 1 city were at or below 2025 health equity goal of 2.0 and national average 2.1 but above 2025 target of 1.0 per 100,000 U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Black or African American Persons.
16 states and 8 cities reported incidence above the 2025 health equity goal and national average.
Expand All Figure 15: TB incidence, U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Blacks or African American Persons (Map) Figure 16: TB incidence, U.S.-born Non-Hispanic Blacks or African American Persons (Chart) ON THIS PAGE Overview TB incidence among non–U.S.-born non-Hispanic Asian American persons TB incidence among non–U.S.-born Hispanic/Latino persons TB incidence among U.S.-born non-Hispanic Blacks or African American persons SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All SEPTEMBER 26, 2024 2021 State and City TB Report: Sputum Culture Conversion KEY POINTS The most recent information available on sputum culture conversion is from patients who were identified with tuberculosis (TB) in 2019.
For these patients, 11 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of 83.0% of culture positive cases with documented culture conversion within 60 days of starting treatment.
Overview Sputum culture conversion means that a patient had a positive sputum culture before being treated for TB disease but after starting treatment their sputum culture became negative.
Successful sputum culture conversion is usually defined as at least two consecutive negative cultures.
This conversion from positive to negative is the best way to measure how well a patient is responding to treatment and when achieved within the first 60 days of treatment will help determine the next treatment phase.
Examining sputum on a regular basis also helps physicians: Detect failure to respond to therapy or early warning signs of relapse of TB disease Monitor patients with multidrug-resistant TB disease to ensure they continue to respond to therapy Determine length of treatment (the longer it takes to convert, the longer the length of treatment) Document that the patient no longer has TB disease at the end of therapy Documented sputum culture conversion It can take up to 2 years to have full sputum culture conversion information reported for each TB patient.
As a result, the most recent information available on sputum culture conversion is from patients in the 50 states and 9 cities who were identified with TB in 2019.
For these patients, 11 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of 83.0% of culture positive TB cases with documented culture conversion within 60 days of starting treatment; 21 states and cities were short of the 2025 target but met or exceeded the national average (69.4%).
Expand All Figure 10: Percentage of Sputum Culture Positive TB Patients with Documented Sputum Culture Conversion SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All SEPTEMBER 26, 2024 2021 State and City TB Report: Treatment for Latent TB Infection KEY POINTS In 2020, the most recent year for which data are available, 17 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of initiating treatment for 92.0% of people diagnosed with latent tuberculosis (TB) infection who were found during contact investigations.
Overview When a person with infectious TB disease coughs (sings or talks), droplet nuclei containing M.
tuberculosis are expelled into the air.
If another person inhales air containing these droplet nuclei, he or she might become infected.
However, not everyone infected with TB bacteria develops symptoms of TB.
As a result, two TB-related conditions exist: latent TB infection and TB disease.
Persons with latent TB infection do not feel sick and do not have any symptoms.
They are infected with M.
tuberculosis, but do not have TB disease at that time.
The only sign of latent TB infection is a positive reaction to a TB skin test or TB blood test.
Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB to others.
However, at some point in their lives, 5–10% of all people with normal immune systems who have latent TB infection will become sick with TB disease.
As previously described, the chances of progression from latent TB infection to TB disease are higher for persons with weakened immune systems, such as those infected with HIV.
Latent TB infection can be treated to prevent the risk of progression to TB disease.
Thus, it is important, in terms of accelerating the decline in TB incidence, to measure how many people with latent TB infection are identified through targeted testing, begin treatment, and complete treatment.
Risk TB programs work to identify persons who experience high risk for latent TB infection or experience high risk for developing TB disease once infected so that they can offer testing and treatment for latent TB infection.
These persons include: Known close contacts of someone with infectious TB disease Persons from regions of the world with high TB incidence Those who work or reside in facilities or institutions with people who also experience high risk for TB Risk factors for developing TB disease once infected include: HIV infection Injection drug use Evidence of prior healed TB disease Diabetes Low body weight Other illnesses or conditions that cause immunosuppression Infants and children under the age of five years are also at higher risk of getting sick with TB disease once infected.
Contacts with latent TB infection who began treatment In 2020, the most recent year for which data are available, 17 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of initiating treatment for 92.0% of people diagnosed with latent TB infection who were found during contact investigations; 19 states and cities were short of the 2025 target but exceeded the national average of 77.3%.
Expand All Figure 8: Percentage of Contacts Newly Diagnosed with Latent TB Infection Who Began Treatment Contacts with latent TB infection who completed treatment In 2020, 11 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of treatment completion for 93.0% of people diagnosed with latent TB infection through contact investigation who started treatment; 21 states and cities were short of the 2025 target but met or exceeded the national average of 79.8%.
Expand All Figure 9: Percentage of Contacts Newly Diagnosed with Latent TB Infection Who Completed Treatment ON THIS PAGE Overview Contacts with latent TB infection who began treatment Contacts with latent TB infection who completed treatment SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis Data EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
TB Data Report 2021 State and City TB Report NTSS Data Request Confirmation NTSS Data Request Form Archived TB Data Reports VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2023 | Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2022 View All SEPTEMBER 26, 2024 2021 State and City TB Report: Completion of Therapy KEY POINTS The most recent information available on completion of therapy is from 2019.
In the United States, 14 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of 95.0% of eligible patients with TB completing a full treatment regimen in 12 months or less.
Overview Fully treating and, therefore, preventing further spread of M.
tuberculosis is key to TB control and elimination.
If TB drugs are stopped too soon or not taken correctly, a person may develop symptoms again or drug resistance may develop, enabling the further spread of TB.
Each patient is unique.
There are many reasons why a patient might be unable or unwilling to complete TB treatment, such as: No longer experiencing symptoms of TB, not fully understanding the treatment regimen Not being willing or able to manage side effects of their treatment regimen Cultural beliefs Language barriers Difficulty getting health care Substance use Mental health issues Completion of therapy among persons who have experienced homelessness or been incarcerated can be particularly challenging due to difficulty locating patients for follow-up care and treatment, but it is particularly important because of the risk of transmission at shelters or correctional facilities.
Directly observed therapy (i.e., patients are observed to ingest each dose of anti-TB medications) Use of incentives and enablers (e.g., gift cards for food or bus fare for transportation to get to and from the health department) to get patients to complete treatment Promoting the shortest appropriate treatment regimen for each patient Newly diagnosed TB cases completing treatment ≤12 months TB treatment is complex and can take several months to complete.
It can take up to 2 years to have full treatment information reported for each TB patient.
As a result, the most recent information available on completion of therapy is from patients in the 50 states and 9 cities who were identified with TB in 2019.
For these patients, 14 states and cities met or exceeded the 2025 national target of 95.0% of eligible patients with TB completing a full treatment regimen in 12 months or less; 18 states and cities were short of the 2025 target but met or exceeded the national average (89.9%).
Expand All Figure 7: Percentage of Newly Diagnosed TB Cases Completing Treatment ≤12 Months, United States, 2019 Completion of therapy among persons who have experienced homelessness In 2019 there were 10 states and 4 cities that reported 6 or more TB patients ages 15 years or older who experienced homelessness in the year prior to diagnosis; 10 of these 14 jurisdictions exceeded the national average of 72.4% completion of therapy among TB patients who experienced homelessness.
Expand All Table 1.
Treatment Completion within 12 Months among Newly Diagnosed TB Patients Age ≥15 who Experienced Homelessness within the Year Prior to Diagnosis, United States, 2019 Completion of therapy among persons who were residents of correctional facilities There were 5 states and 4 cities in 2019 that reported 4 or more TB patients ages 15 years or older who were residents of correctional facilities at TB diagnosis; 5 of these 9 jurisdictions exceeded the national average of 72.1% completion of therapy among TB patients residing at correctional facilities.
Expand All Table 2.
Treatment Completion within 12 Months or Less among Newly Diagnosed TB Patients Age ≥15 who were Residents of Correctional Facilities at the Time of Diagnosis, United States, 2019 ON THIS PAGE Overview Newly diagnosed TB cases completing treatment ≤12 months Completion of therapy among persons who have experienced homelessness Completion of therapy among persons who were residents of correctional facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis Data Learn about TB data systems and TB data trends in the United States, as well as how data is used to track progress towards TB elimination.
View All Latent TB Infection in the United States – Published Estimates Provisional 2024 U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All APRIL 22, 2024 Glossary of Tuberculosis Terms AT A GLANCE This glossary includes definitions for commonly used tuberculosis (TB) terms and concepts.
A - F A Acid-fast bacilli (AFB) – a type of bacteria that keep the color of a stain even when washed in an acid solution.
TB germs are acid-fast bacilli.
Laboratory staff may look for acid-fast bacilli in a patient's sputum sample.
If the acid-fast bacilli are present, it means that TB germs are in the sample.
Active TB disease – happens when the immune system cannot keep TB germs from multiplying and growing in the body.
People with active TB disease feel sick and can spread TB germs to others.
Active TB disease can almost always be treated and cured with medicine.
Without treatment, active TB disease can be fatal.
B Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) – a vaccine for active TB disease.
The vaccine is not generally used in the United States.
It is given to infants and small children in countries where TB is common.
It protects children from getting severe forms of active TB disease, such as TB meningitis.
Tell your health care provider if you have received the TB vaccine, especially if you are getting tested for TB infection because it can cause a false positive TB skin test reaction.
TB blood tests, also known as interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA), are the preferred tests for people who have received the BCG TB vaccine.
Boosted reaction – a positive reaction to a TB skin test, also known as tuberculin skin test (TST), due to a boosted immune response from a TB skin test given in the past year.
Health care providers use two-step testing to help tell the difference between boosted reactions and recent infection.
This two-step approach can lower the chances that a boosted reaction from an old infection with TB germs will be misinterpreted as a recent infection.
If the test result for the first TB skin test is negative, a second TB skin test is given one to three weeks later.
Booster phenomenon – an event in which some people, especially older adults, who receive a TB skin test many years after being infected with TB germs may have a negative reaction to an initial TB skin test, followed by a positive reaction to a TB skin test given up to a year later.
The first TB skin test "triggered the memory" of the immune system, boosting its ability to react to the second TB skin test.
Two-step testing is used to tell the difference between boosted reactions and recent infection.
C Chest x-ray – a picture of the inside of your chest.
During a chest x-ray, also known as a chest radiograph, x-rays pass through your chest and create an image on film.
A health care provider may look at a chest x-ray to see if there are signs of active TB disease in your lungs.
Civil surgeon – physicians who conduct medical examinations of persons living in the United States and applying for lawful permanent residence.
Cluster investigation – a process to identify connections between people with TB disease who have matching TB genotypes.
See also "genotype cluster." Congregate setting – a place where people live and work close to each other, such as correctional and detention facilities, nursing homes, schools, and homeless service sites.
Contact – a person who spent time around someone with active TB disease.
Contacts of someone with active TB disease may need to be tested for TB.
If you have active TB disease, your contacts may include: People in the same household, Family members, Friends, Coworkers, Classmates, Neighbors, and Anyone else who spent time with you while you were able to spread TB germs.
Contact investigation – sometimes referred to as "contact tracing", the process of identifying people who have recently been in contact with someone diagnosed with an infectious disease.
Contact tracing is the process of quickly identifying, assessing, and managing people who have been exposed to a disease to prevent additional transmission.
Continuation phase – a phase in the treatment plan for active TB disease.
It occurs after the intensive phase and aims to kill the remaining TB germs.
This helps to lower the chances of the treatment plan not working, or active TB disease coming back after finishing the treatment plan.
Depending on the treatment plan, your TB medicines may change.
Counting of a TB case – a process to confirm a case of TB disease and ensure the case is not counted twice.
Local health authorities count TB cases in a specific area and report the cases to CDC.
Culture – a laboratory test to see whether there are TB germs in your sputum (or phlegm) or other body fluids.
Results from this test can take two to four weeks to process.
D Diabetes – a chronic (long-lasting) health condition that affects how your body turns food into energy.
A person with diabetes is at higher risk for developing active TB disease once infected with TB germs.
Directly observed therapy (DOT) – a way to help people take their medicine for TB infection.
Through DOT, you will meet with a health care worker every day or several times a week.
These meetings may be in-person or virtual (through a smartphone, tablet, or computer).
The health care worker will watch you take their TB medicines and make sure that the TB medicines are working as they should.
Disseminated TB – a type of active TB disease that occurs when TB germs enter the bloodstream or lymph system and spread to other parts of the body.
TB germs grow and cause disease in multiple sites of the body, e.g., miliary TB.
Drug-resistant TB disease – a form of active TB disease in which some TB medicines can no longer kill the TB germs.
Drug-resistant TB disease occurs when TB germs are resistant to at least one of the most effective TB medicines.
E Epidemiologic (epi) link – a connection between two people with TB disease that might explain where, when, and how one person spreads TB germs to the other person.
Ethambutol – a first-line medicine to treat active TB disease.
Exposure to TB – when a person spends time with someone who has active TB disease Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB) – a rare type of active TB disease that is resistant to nearly all medicines used to treat active TB disease.
Extrapulmonary TB – a form of active TB disease that occurs in any part of the body other than the lungs (such as the brain, kidneys, or the spine).
F False-negative reaction – a reaction to a TB skin test or TB blood test that says a person does not have TB germs in their body, but they do have TB germs in their body.
False-positive reaction – a reaction to a TB skin test or TB blood test that says a person has TB germs in their body, but they do not have TB germs in their body.
First-line treatment drugs – a group of medicines to treat active TB disease that make up the most powerful, least expensive, and most tolerable treatment plan.
The medicines include isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide.
Fluoroquinolone – a class of synthetic broad-spectrum antibacterial medicines; examples of fluoroquinolones to treat TB infection are levofloxacin and moxifloxacin.
G - K G Genotype – a distinct genetic pattern of an organism.
Genotype cluster – a group of 2 or more TB cases withTB germs that share the same genotype in a specific area during a specific period.
In the United States, cases with the same wgMLSType belong to the same genotype cluster.
CDC uses a single county or county equivalent and a 3-year period to define a cluster.
See also "log-likelihood ratio" and "genotype cluster." Genotype surveillance coverage – the percentage of culture-positive TB cases with a genotype result.
Genotyping – a laboratory-based approach to identify the genetic material, or "make-up", (e.g., DNA) of the germs that caused active TB disease in a person.
TB programs may use TB genotyping results to help find people with active TB disease who may be connected and spread active TB disease to each other.
TB genotyping is a helpful tool for contact investigations.
GENType – a U.S.
molecular surveillance designation that used spoligotyping and 24-locus MIRU-VNTR results.
GENType designated each genotype with a G followed by 5 digits, which was sequentially assigned to every genotype identified in the United States (e.g., G00017) during 2009–2022.
See also "spoligotyping" and "mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit - variable number tandem repeat." Geospatial concentration – a measure of the number of cases with a given genotype in a specific area during a specific time period which may suggest recent transmission.
H HIV infection – a person with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is at higher risk of becoming sick with active TB disease once exposed to TB germs compare with people who do not have HIV.
HIV weakens the immune system, which makes it harder for the body to fight TB germs.
I Immune system – cells and tissues in the body that protect the body from unfamiliar substances, like TB germs.
Active TB disease happens when the immune system cannot keep TB germs from multiplying and growing in the body.
Inactive TB – a condition in which TB germs live in your body without making you sick.
Inactive TB is also known as latent TB infection.
People with inactive TB do not feel sick, do not have symptoms, and cannot spread TB to others.
Without treatment, inactive TB can develop into active TB disease at any time and make you sick.
Index case – the first person diagnosed with active TB disease, also called the initial TB case, that leads to a contact investigation.
Infection control procedures – a set of measures to prevent the spread of active TB disease.
These measures include administrative procedures, environmental controls, and using respiratory protective equipment.
Infectious – a person's ability to spread TB germs into the air when he or she coughs, speaks, or sings.
Intensive phase – a phase in the treatment plan for active TB disease.
It occurs before the continuation phase.
During the intensive phase, you take strong medicines to kill as many TB germs as quickly as possible.
Depending on the treatment plan, you may take a combination of TB medicines for a specific amount of time.
Interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) – see "TB blood test" Isolate – a sample of TB germs from sputum (or phlegm) or other body fluids.
See also "culture." Isoniazid – a first-line medicine used to treat inactive TB and active TB disease.
L - P L Latent TB infection – see "inactive TB" Log-likelihood ratio (LLR) – a measure of the geographic concentration of a specific genotype in a county compared with its national distribution during a 3-year period.
A higher LLR means greater clustering of a given genotype in the county, suggesting possible recent transmission (spread) of TB germs.
M Medical evaluation – a process in which your health care provider collects information to diagnose inactive TB or active TB disease.
A medical evaluation includes: Medical history Physical examination Test for TB infection (TB blood test or TB skin test) Chest x-ray Laboratory tests to see if TB germs are present (sputum smear and culture) Laboratory tests for drug resistance Medical history – a health care provider will ask you questions about your health to diagnose you with inactive TB or active TB disease as part of a medical evaluation.
The health care provider may ask you if you have: Symptoms of active TB disease, Spent time with someone who has active TB disease, Ever had a positive TB blood test or TB skin test, Ever been diagnosed with inactive TB or active TB disease in the past, or Factors that may increase your risk for becoming infected with TB germs.
Miliary TB – a type of active TB disease that occurs when TB germs enter your bloodstream and spread to other parts of the body where they grow and cause disease in multiple sites.
The chest x-ray of a person with miliary TB often looks like millet seeds scattered throughout the lung.
Moxifloxacin – a type of fluoroquinolone used to treat active TB disease.
Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) – a type of active TB disease caused by TB germs that are resistant to two or more of the main TB medicines: isoniazid and rifampin.
Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit–variable number tandem repeat (MIRU-VTNR) – a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay that was used for genotyping during 2004–2022.
MIRU-VTNR distinguished Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains by the difference in the number of copies of tandem repeats at specific regions, or loci, of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome.
Mycobacterium bovis – a member of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) commonly associated with cattle and deer.
It can infect other mammals, including humans, causing disease similar to Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
bovis rarely affects people in the United States.
Human cases are often linked to consuming contaminated foods, such as unpasteurized milk or dairy products.
Before pasteurization became common practice, humans usually were infected with these TB germs through contaminated milk.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis – the germ that causes inactive TB and active TB disease.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) – a group of closely related mycobacterial species that can cause inactive TB and active TB disease.
Most TB cases among humans result from Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
MTBC includes: Mycobacterium africanum Mycobacterium bovis Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette–Guérin Mycobacterium canetti Mycobacterium caprae Mycobacterium microti Mycobacterium mungi Mycobacterium orygis Mycobacterium pinnipedii Mycobacterium suricattae Mycobacterium tuberculosis N Negative – "negative" usually refers to test results showing that TB germs are not present in your body.
For example, if a TB blood test result or TB skin test result is negative, it means that you do not have TB germs in your body and inactive TB or active TB disease is unlikely.
A negative culture means that the culture did not find any TB germs.
Your health care provider may do more tests, especially if: You have symptoms of active TB disease, like coughing, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or tiredness.
You have HIV.
You were recently exposed to TB germs.
Nontuberculous mycobacteria – mycobacteria other than Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex that can cause human infection or disease.
Common nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) include: Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and other members of the Mycobacterium avium complex (also known as "MAC" or "MAI") Mycobacterium chelonae Mycobacterium fortuitum Mycobacterium kansasii Mycobacterium marinum Mycobacterium scrofulaceum Mycobacterium simiae Other terms to represent NTM include "MOTT" (mycobacteria other than TB) and "atypical" mycobacteria.
Nucleic acid amplification (NAA) – a technique that copies pieces of genetic material.
Laboratory staff often use it to detect TB germs in clinical specimens.
P Panel physician – panel physicians work overseas and conduct examinations (including TB screening) on people who apply for immigrant or refugee status before coming to the United States.
PCRType – a U.S.
molecular surveillance designation that used spoligotyping and 12-locus MIRU-VNTR results during 2004–2022.
PCRType is written as PCR followed by the 5 digits sequentially assigned to every genotype identified in the United States (e.g., PCR01974).
See also "spoligotyping" and "mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit–variable number tandem repeat." Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) – a laboratory method that quickly multiplies small amounts of DNA to enable certain types of laboratory testing.
Positive – "positive" usually refers to test results showing that TB germs are present in your body.
For example, if a TB blood test result or TB skin test result is positive, it means that you have TB germs in your body.
Your health care provider will do other tests to determine if you have inactive TB or active TB disease.
These tests may include a chest x-ray, and a test of the sputum (phlegm) you cough up.
A positive culture means that the culture did find TB germs.
Presumed TB case – an illness that may be active TB disease and may require a medical evaluation for TB disease.
Similar terms include "possible TB case" or "suspected TB case." Pulmonary TB – a form of active TB disease that occurs in the lungs, typically causing a cough and an abnormal chest x-ray.
Pulmonary TB can usually spread to others if untreated.
Most active TB disease cases are pulmonary TB.
Pyrazinamide – a first-line medicine to treat inactive TB and active TB disease.
Q - U R Reinfection – a second infection, usually caused by a different strain (genotype) of TB germsthan the first infection.
See also "relapse." Relapse – a clinical worsening of TB disease after the person received treatment and improved.
The same strain (genotype) of TB germscauses a relapse.
Genotyping the first and later Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates (TB germs) can help distinguish relapse from reinfection.
See also "reinfection." Reporting area – an area responsible for counting and reporting verified TB disease cases to CDC.
In total, 60 areas report cases to CDC, including: 50 U.S.
states, New York City, and the District of Columbia (D.C.) Five U.S.
territories (American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands) Three independent countries that are in compacts of free association with the United States (Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Republic of Palau) Resistant bacteria – germs that medicine cannot kill.
Rifampin (RIF) – a first-line medicine used to treat inactive TB and active TB disease.
Rifapentine (RPT) – a medicine to treat both inactive TB and active TB disease.
S Smear – a laboratory test to see if you have TB germs in your sputum (phlegm).
To do this test, laboratory staff smear the sputum on a glass slide and stain the slide with a special stain.
The laboratory staff look for any TB germs on the slide.
This test usually takes one day to get the results.
Spacer oligonucleotide typing (spoligotyping) – a method that identified spacer sequences located in the direct repeat region of the chromosomes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC).
The spoligotype used an octal code to report as a 15-digit number.
Spoligotyping was performed on every isolate submitted for genotyping from 2004–2022.
Sputum – a substance (also called phlegm) coughed up from deep inside the lungs.
Your health care provider may examine sputum for TB germs using a smear test.
They can also use a part of the sputum for a culture test to see if TB germs grow.
T TB blood test – a TB blood test (also called an interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) uses a blood sample to find out if have TB germs in your body.
The test measures how your immune system reacts when a small amount of your blood is mixed with TB proteins.
The TB blood test requires only one visit with your healthcare provider.
Your health care provider will use one of the two TB blood tests approved for use in the United States: QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Plus (QFT-Plus) or T-SPOT®.TB test (T-Spot).
TB case – a person with presumed or confirmed active TB disease who meets laboratory or clinical criteria.
TB meningitis – an illness that occurs when TB germs infect the tissue surrounding the brain or spinal cord.
Symptoms may include headache, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness.
TB outbreak – occurs when there are more people with active TB disease (TB cases) than expected in a certain geographic area (i.e., a city) or a group of people (i.e., people who work at a particular nursing home) during a particular time, and TB germs are spreading.
TB skin test – a TB skin test (known as the tuberculin skin test (TST)) helps to find out if you have TB germs in your body.
The TB skin test requires two visits with your healthcare provider.
During the first visit, a health care provider uses a small needle to put some testing material under the skin.
You will need to return to your health care provider in two to three days to have the test read.
Transmission (spread) – a process of one person with active TB disease giving TB germs to another person.
The chances of a person with active TB disease spreading TB germs to others depends on factors that may include: How likely the person with active TB disease is to spread TB germs (i.e., infectiousness) Where the people are (e.g., in close proximity to each other or in an area with poor air flow) How much time is spent around a person with active TB disease How likely the person exposed to TB germs is to get sick (i.e., if they have a weakened immune system) Treatment plan – also referred to as "treatment regimen", is a schedule to take TB medicines to kill all the TB germs.
Your treatment plan for inactive TB or active TB disease will include: The types of TB medicines to take, How much TB medicine to take, How often to take the TB medicines, How long to take the medicines, How to monitor yourself for any side effects of your TB medicine, and The health care provider(s) who will support you through the treatment process.
Tuberculin – a testing fluid (also known as purified protein derivative (PPD)) for TB germs used in the TB skin test.
During the first visit, a health care provider uses a small needle to put tuberculin under the skin on the lower part of your inner arm.
After two or three days, you must return to the clinic to have the skin test read.
A trained health care provider will measure the size of the bump or reaction.
Two-step testing – a testing process to tell the difference between a boosted reaction to a TB skin test compared with a recent infection with TB germs.
A two-step approach can lower the chances that a boosted reaction from an old infection with TB germs will be misinterpreted as a recent infection.
If the test result for the first TB skin test is negative, a second TB skin test is given one to three weeks later.
V - Z V Verification of a TB case – a process to confirm and count a case of TB disease.
Video DOT (vDOT) – a type of directly observed therapy (DOT) to help people complete treatment for TB.
During vDOT, you will use a video-enabled device, such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer, to meet with a health care provider.
The health care provider will watch you take your TB medicine virtually.
W wgMLSType – a U.S.
molecular surveillance designation for each wgMLST result.
CDC assigns wgMLSType to isolates with wgMLST that cluster nationally, defined as matching at ≥99.7% of their loci.
These isolates receive a designation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) followed by 6-digits (e.g., MTBC000123).
Isolates that do not match are designated as "MTBCunique.
Since 2018, wgMLSType has been available, and it is the sole genotype designation used since July 2022.
A locus refers to a specific location in the genome (i.e., one gene).
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) – a method that generates usable DNA sequence information for about 90% of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome.
Resources What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Tuberculosis Questions and Answers ON THIS PAGE A - F G - K L - P Q - U V - Z Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All FEBRUARY 26, 2024 Tuberculosis Elimination Alliance (TEA) PAGE SUMMARY Tuberculosis Elimination Alliance The Tuberculosis Elimination Alliance (TEA) is a national partnership of community-based partners and organizations dedicated to eliminating tuberculosis (TB) inequities among people at risk through education, raising awareness, and innovation.
  About Tuberculosis Elimination Alliance Background Ending TB in the United States will require a dual approach of maintaining and strengthening current TB control priorities while increasing efforts to identify and treat inactive TB (also known as latent TB infection) in populations at risk for TB disease.
CDC and the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force recommend testing populations at increased risk for TB infection.
New efforts are required to raise awareness of TB in communities disproportionately affected by TB and promote TB testing and treatment.
It is also critical to engage with health care providers to ensure they know about the latest TB diagnostics and treatment options available.
Objectives The TB Elimination Alliance brings together community-based organizations, federally qualified health centers, community clinics, primary care providers, and other partners across the United States to increase knowledge, testing, and treatment of TB among communities at increased risk.
The goals of the TB Elimination Alliance are to: Conduct outreach to communities most affected by TB, Increase awareness and understanding of TB testing and treatment strategies, Share resources and best practices among providers, and Develop partnerships to scale existing initiatives.
Working with CDC The TB Elimination Alliance leads a variety of projects, including a mini-grant program, annual summit, learning collaboratives, and also provides technical assistances to members.
The TB Elimination Alliance has also partnered with CDC on the Think.
Treat TB campaign.
CDC is partnering with the TB Elimination Alliance Steering Committee to lead this effort.
The Steering Committee includes representatives from: Asian and Pacific Islander American Health Forum (APIAHF) Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO) Hepatitis B Foundation Stop TB USA CDC and the TB Elimination Alliance also work closely with state and local TB programs.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All DECEMBER 3, 2024 Tuberculosis Personal Stories AT A GLANCE Tuberculosis (TB) is still a life-threatening problem in this country.
TB knows no borders, and people here in the United States are suffering from TB.
These stories highlight the personal experiences of people who were diagnosed and treated for inactive TB (also called latent TB infection) and active TB disease, as well as the work of TB control professionals.
Connect with other TB survivors We are TB , and Somos TB (for Spanish-speakers), is a community of TB survivors, people being treated for TB, and their family members, committed to the common goal of eliminating TB.
The group provides comprehensive peer support for current TB patients and TB clinics.
Stories SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All APRIL 17, 2025 Latent TB Infection Resource Hub AT A GLANCE The online latent TB infection resource hub is a one-stop shop for resources related to: How to Order Materials Materials are available free of charge for order via CDC Publications on Demand (see ordering instructions).
Featured Resources Stop TB Poster The Stop TB poster provides an overview of latent TB infection and TB disease.
10, 2024 Download Think.
Treat TB Think.
Treat TB aims to increase awareness and understanding about inactive tuberculosis.
29, 2024 Latent Tuberculosis Infection: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers Guide for primary care providers with latent TB infection diagnosis and treatment information.
2, 2024 Download Resources for Providers Expand All Screening and Testing Guidance Treatment Guidance Provider Education Resources Resources for Patients Expand All Screening and Testing Information Treatment Information Patient Education Materials ON THIS PAGE How to Order Materials Featured Resources Resources for Providers Resources for Patients SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All JANUARY 13, 2025 Stay Connected AT A GLANCE CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination offers many ways for public health professionals, health care providers, patients, and others to connect.
Follow CDC TB on social media X/Twitter: @CDC_TB Facebook: @CDCTB You can also watch YouTube video content on CDC's tuberculosis (TB) playlist.
Subscribe to CDC's TB Notes Newsletter TB Notes is the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination’s quarterly newsletter.
TB notes includes: News and updates from CDC, Activities and highlights from state and local TB programs across the country, and Recent publications.
Subscribe to TB Notes Follow the instructions to sign up for the TB Notes Newsletter using your email address.
Subscribe to TB Notes TB Notes 2024 Issues TB Notes Issue 1, 2024 TB Notes, Issue 1 2024 provides an update on Division of TB Elimination activities.
TB Notes Issue 2, 2024 TB Notes, Issue 2 2024 provides an update on Division of TB Elimination activities.
TB Notes Issue 3, 2024 TB Notes, Issue 3 2024 provides an update on Division of TB Elimination activities.
Visit Find TB Resources Find TB Resources connects health care professionals, patients, and the public to an online library of resources, training, and educational materials.
You can help expand and enhance Find TB Resources by submitting your own TB materials.
Learn more by subscribing to the Find TB Resources monthly newsletter.
Sign up for TB updates Stay up-to-date with the latest TB information.
Sign up for TB updates using your email address.
Learn about upcoming TB events CDC maintains a list of current and upcoming TB-related events.
Learn about upcoming regional, national, and international events for the TB community.
Order free TB education materials CDC Publications On Demand allows people in the United States to order printed copies of TB materials such as: Fact sheets, Posters, Booklets, Training resources, and Other educational materials Follow these instructions to place your order.
ON THIS PAGE Follow CDC TB on social media Subscribe to CDC's TB Notes Newsletter Visit Find TB Resources Sign up for TB updates Learn about upcoming TB events Order free TB education materials SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All APRIL 17, 2025 Treating Active Tuberculosis Disease KEY POINTS If you have active tuberculosis (TB) disease, you can be treated with medicine.
You will need to take and finish all of your TB medicine as directed by your health care provider.
Tell your health care provider if you have trouble taking the TB medicines.
Treatment overview TB germs become active if the immune system can't stop them from growing.
When TB germs are active (multiplying in your body), this is called active TB disease.
People with active TB disease feel sick.
They may also be able to spread the germs to people they spend time with every day.
Without treatment, active TB disease can be fatal.
If you have active TB disease, you can be treated with medicine.
You will need to take several different TB medicines.
This is because there are many TB germs to be killed.
Taking several TB medicines will do a better job of killing all the TB germs and preventing them from becoming resistant to the medicines.
TB germs are strong, and it can take a long time for them to die.
Even if you start to feel better, it is important to take and finish all TB medicines exactly as your health care provider recommends: If you stop taking the medicines too soon, you can become sick again; if you do not take the medicines correctly, the TB germs that are still alive may become resistant to those medicines.
TB that is resistant to medicines is harder to treat.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Treatment for Drug-Susceptible Tuberculosis Disease Treatment options There are several safe and effective treatment plans recommended in the United States for active TB disease.
A treatment plan (also called treatment regimen) for active TB disease is a schedule to take TB medicines to kill all the TB germs.
Your treatment plan for active TB disease will include: The types of TB medicines to take, How much TB medicine to take, How often to take the TB medicines, How long to take the medicines, How to monitor yourself for any side effects of your TB medicine, and The health care provider(s) who will support you through the treatment process.
You and your health care provider will discuss which treatment plan is best for you depending on your medical history and any medications you are currently taking.
Your health care provider will make sure the medications can kill the TB germs in your body.
Treatment for active TB disease can take four, six, or nine months depending on the treatment plan .
The treatment plans for active TB disease use different combinations of medicines that may include: Ethambutol Isoniazid Moxifloxacin Rifampin Rifapentine Pyrazinamide Before starting treatment Tell your health care provider about all medicines you are taking.
Some medicines can interact with the TB medicines and cause a possible side effect or reaction after taking medicine.
Some oral contraceptives (birth control pills) may not work as well when you take them with medicines for active TB disease.
TB medicines can sometimes interfere with birth control pills and possibly make the birth control pills less effective.
If you are taking birth control pills, talk with your health care provider before beginning any new medicines.
Tell your health care provider if you are or think you may be pregnant, or are breastfeeding before you start any TB medicines.
Your health care provider can recommend a treatment plan.
Drinking alcoholic beverages while taking medicines for TB can be dangerous and may hurt your liver.
Alcoholic beverages include wine, beer, or liquor.
Ask your health care provider about things to avoid while taking medicines for active TB disease.
Side effects Most people can take their TB medicines without any problems.
However, like all medicines, the medicine you take for active TB disease can have side effects.
People react differently to medicines.
Tell your health care provider about anything you think is wrong.
Some side effects are minor.
For example, any TB medicine can cause a skin rash.
Other TB medicines may cause an upset stomach or nausea.
Taking your TB medicine with food can help your body absorb the medicine better.
The rifampin or rifapentine medicines may cause some body fluids, to turn an orange color, such as: Urine (pee), Saliva, Tears, Sweat, and Breast milk.
This is normal and harmless.
The color may fade over time.
Your health care provider may tell you not to wear soft contact lenses because they may get permanently stained.
If you have any of these side effects, you can continue taking your medicine.
Other side effects are more serious.
If you have a serious side effect, call your health care provider immediately.
You may be told to stop taking your medicines or to return to the clinic for tests.
Serious side effects include: Liver injury Abdominal pain Nausea and vomiting Skin and eyes turning yellow (also called jaundice) Dizziness or lightheadedness Loss of appetite Flu-like symptoms Tingling or numbness in your hands or feet If you are taking isoniazid, you may have tingling or numbness in your hands and feet.
Your health care provider may add vitamin B6 to your treatment plan to prevent this.
Special considerations Children Treatment for active TB disease in children may take four months, six months, or longer.
Health care providers will consider a child's age, weight, and other factors when prescribing treatment.
People with HIV There are several TB treatment options for people with HIV and active TB disease.
Your health care provider will help make sure your TB medicines do not interfere with your HIV medicines.
Pregnancy If you are diagnosed with active TB disease during pregnancy, you should start treatment right away.
Your health care provider will choose TB medicines that are recommended for use during pregnancy.
Although the TB medicines used in recommended treatment plans cross the placenta, these medicines are not known to have harmful effects on the baby.
Your health care provider will monitor you and your baby during treatment for active TB disease.
Tell your health care provider if you have any problems taking your medicine.
Completing treatment Treating active TB disease takes several months.
Your health care provider will work with you to make sure you can complete your treatment.
Take all TB medicines exactly as prescribed.
Do not miss any doses and do not stop treatment early.
It can be very dangerous to stop taking your medicines or not to take all your medicines regularly.
It takes a long time for the medicines to kill all the TB germs.
You will probably start feeling well after only a few weeks of treatment, but beware!
The TB germs are still alive in your body, even if you feel better.
You must continue to take your medicines until all the TB germs are dead, even though you may feel better and have no more symptoms of TB disease.
If you become infectious again, you could give TB germs to your family, friends, or anyone else who spends time with you.
You may take your medicine through directly observed therapy (DOT), on your own, or a combination of both.
Directly observed therapy (DOT) is the best way to remember to take your TB medicines.
Through DOT, you will meet with a health care worker every day or several times a week.
These meetings may be in-person or virtual (through a smartphone, tablet, or computer).
The health care worker will watch you take your TB medicines and make sure that the TB medicines are working as they should.
KEEP READING: Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023 If you take TB medicines on your own If you take TB medicines on your own, here are tips to help you to remember to take your TB medicines: Take your pills at the same time every day—for example, you can take them before eating breakfast, during a regular coffee break, or after brushing your teeth.
Set an alarm for the time you need to take your medicine.
Write yourself a note as a reminder to take your medicine.
Put it in a place where you can see it, like on your bathroom mirror or on your refrigerator.
Ask a family member or a friend to remind you to take your pills.
Mark off each day on a calendar as you take your medicine.
Put your pills in a weekly pill dispenser that you keep by your bed or in your purse or pocket.
Use a medicine tracker to organize and manage your pills.
NOTE: Remember to keep all medicine out of reach of children.
If you forget to take your pills one day, skip that dose and take the next scheduled dose.
Tell your health care provider that you missed a dose.
You may also call your health care provider for instructions.
Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns about treatment for active TB disease.
Your health care provider will monitor your treatment.
Your health care provider will ask you about side effects and perform tests to see how the medicines are working.
Depending on your treatment plan, your health care provider may ask for blood, sputum (phlegm), or urine tests while you are on treatment.
These tests help show if the TB medicines are working the right way and how your body is handling the medicine.
You may also get additional chest x-rays.
If you have active TB disease and other health problems, like HIV infection or diabetes, you may need to have blood, sputum (phlegm), or urine tests before and after treatment.
Be sure to keep your clinic appointments and talk to your health care provider if you have any problems with your medicines.
Keep a record of your treatment.
Even after you finish taking all of your medicine for active TB disease, you may still have a positive test result on future TB blood tests or TB skin tests.
Ask your health care provider for a written record that you have finished treatment for active TB disease.
This will be helpful if you are asked to have another TB test in the future.
Most healthy people will not need to be treated for active TB disease ever again.
However, the treatment you completed only kills the TB germs in your body now.
If you are around someone with active TB disease, there is a chance that you can get new TB germs in your body.
Getting support It is very important to take and finish all TB medicines exactly as prescribed by your health care provider.
Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns about treatment for active TB disease.
Tell your health care provider if you: Have side effects from the TB medicine.
Need help taking your TB medicine.
This includes food, clean water, or transportation.
If you need additional assistance or support in completing treatment for active TB disease Talk to your health care provider.
The state or local TB program may be able to provide support or have resources to help you.
Ask your family or friends for support.
If you need support while completing treatment for active TB disease, ask your family or friends.
A family member or friend can help you to remember to take your TB medicines.
It can be hard taking TB medicine for several months.
A family member or friend can provide emotional support and may be able to help you get resources such as food and groceries if you have to stay away from others while being treated for active TB disease.
Connect with other TB survivors.
We are TB , and Somos TB for Spanish-speakers, is a community of TB survivors, people being treated for TB, and their family members, committed to the common goal of eliminating TB.
The group provides comprehensive peer support for current TB patients and TB clinics.
You can learn about people's experiences of being diagnosed and treated for active TB disease through CDC's Tuberculosis Personal Stories.
Resources Staying on Track with Tuberculosis Medicine Booklet Download What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Download Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download ON THIS PAGE Treatment overview Treatment options Completing treatment Getting support Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo 13 DE MARZO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VISTAZO GENERAL La tuberculosis sigue siendo un problema potencialmente mortal en este país.
La tuberculosis no conoce fronteras y hay personas aquí en los Estados Unidos que sufren por ella.
Estas historias resaltan las experiencias particulares de personas en quienes se diagnosticó y trató la tuberculosis inactiva (también llamada infección de tuberculosis latente) o la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, así como el trabajo de los profesionales dedicados al control de la tuberculosis.
Comuníquese con otros sobrevivientes de tuberculosis We are TB (enlace en inglés) y Somos TB (para los hispanohablantes) es una comunidad de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis, personas que reciben tratamiento para la tuberculosis y sus familiares, que están comprometidos con la meta común de eliminar la tuberculosis.
El grupo proporciona apoyo mutuo integral a los pacientes actuales y a los centros médicos de tuberculosis.
Los CDC también tienen historias personales (enlace en inglés) sobre la tuberculosis en otros idiomas.
Historias Infórmese sobre la tuberculosis Karen y Jackie hablan sobre la importancia de informarse más sobre la tuberculosis.
Somos TB Karen y Jackie hablan sobre la importancia de recibir apoyo durante el tratamiento de la tuberculosis.
La historia de Jackie Jackie comparte sus experiencias personales con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
La historia de Karen Karen cuenta sus experiencias con respecto a la tuberculosis después de dar a luz.
La historia de Laura Laura describe cómo fue recibir el diagnóstico y tratamiento para la tuberculosis.
EN ESTA PÁGINA Comuníquese con otros sobrevivientes de tuberculosis Historias FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All FEBRUARY 28, 2024 Kelcie's Story KEY POINTS Kelcie was diagnosed with inactive tuberculosis (TB), also called latent TB infection, and completed treatment to prevent the development of TB disease.
She encourages others to do the same.
Kelcie's story Kelcie was diagnosed with inactive TB, also called latent TB infection, during a health exam after a year living outside of the United States.
TB germs can live in the body without making you sick.
This is called inactive TB, or latent TB infection.
People with inactive TB are infected with TB germs, but they do not have active TB disease.
They do not feel sick, do not have symptoms of TB disease, and cannot spread TB to others.
Without treatment, people with inactive TB can develop active TB disease at any time and become sick.
People with active TB disease may also be able to spread the germs to people they spend time with every day.
Like many people, Kelcie wasn't familiar with inactive TB and wasn't sure what she should do about it.
I didn't understand what steps I would have to take considering I wasn't actually sick.
So, I think at the time my biggest concern was getting more information of what the next steps are, how likely is it that I'm going to get sick, am I going to get sick immediately," says Kelcie.
Low Resolution Video Treatment Kelcie's doctor was very knowledgeable and spent time answering all of her questions.
However, that meant that I could in the future develop active TB, and be sick, and be putting other people at risk," Kelcie explains.
Her doctor presented her with a couple of different treatment options for her inactive TB to prevent developing active TB disease in the future.
"One was a more traditional nine-month treatment option.
But the other was a newer option that was only three months.
And while my doctor presented the pros and cons of both, she definitely recommended the three-month option," recalls Kelcie.
While all the treatment regimens for inactive TB are effective, health care providers should prescribe the more convenient shorter regimens, when possible.
Patients are more likely to complete shorter treatment regimens.
Once she began treatment, her local health department helped facilitate her treatment and answered the questions she had along the way.
They came to her house once a week to deliver the pills, which Kelcie found very convenient.
Kelcie's message As someone who decided to take treatment for inactive TB to prevent active TB disease, Kelcie encourages others to do the same.
"Now when I'm sick, I'm not worried that I have TB.
And I know that it was handled and taken care of, and I have a lot more peace of mind.
I would love people to have more awareness about TB and how easily latent TB can be treated, so that maybe people will get tested more and we'd have less issues with people having active TB disease and being sick and contagious," says Kelcie.
If you are a TB patient, survivor, or family member in need of support, We Are TB is a community of TB survivors, people being treated for TB, and their family members who are committed to the common goal of eliminating TB.
ON THIS PAGE Kelcie's story Treatment Kelcie's message SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All APRIL 30, 2025 Events WHAT TO KNOW CDC maintains a list of current and upcoming TB-related events.
If you would like to submit an event for consideration, please send a request to CDC INFO.
The event should be open to all (regional, national, or international event).
February Annual TB Conference - The Union North America Region (NAR) Dates: February 26-March 1, 2025 Location: Vancouver, British Columbia URL:  March Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI) Dates: March 9–12, 2025 Location: San Francisco, CA URL:  April The International Panel Physicians Association (IPPA) M5 Training Summit Dates: April 8-11, 2025 Location: Lisbon, Portugal URL:  Annual Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) Conference Dates: April 22–25, 2025 Location: Atlanta, GA URL:  May Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL) Annual Conference Dates: May 5-8, 2025 Location: Portland, OR URL:  Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC) Spring Meeting Dates: May 13-15, 2025 Location: Emory University, R.
Randal Rollins Building, Atlanta, GA Organizer: Carla Jeffries American Thoracic Society (ATS) International Conference Dates: May 16–21, 2025 Location: San Francisco, CA URL:  July 2025 National Conference on Health Communications, Marketing and Media Dates: July 28-30, 2025 Location: Atlanta, GA URL:  October ID Week 2025 Dates: October 19-22, 2025 Location: Atlanta, GA URL:  November American Public Health Association (APHA) Annual Meeting and Expo Dates: November 2-5, 2025 Location: Washington, D.C.
URL:  The Union World Conference on Lung Health Dates: November 18-22, 2025 Location: Copenhagen, Denmark URL:  ON THIS PAGE February March April May July October November SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All MARCH 5, 2024 Staying on Track with Tuberculosis Medicine Booklet KEY POINTS This booklet helps people take TB medicine correctly.
Learn how to stay on track with your TB medicine.
Format: PDF Dimensions: 8.5 x 11 in Page count: 24 Language: English (US) Size: 8 MB View Additional languages Staying on Track with TB Medicine A booklet about treatment and ways to adhere to medication regimens for TB infection and TB disease.
Download Staying on Track with TB Medicine A booklet about treatment and ways to adhere to medication regimens for TB infection and TB disease.
Download Staying on Track with TB Medicine A booklet about treatment and ways to adhere to medication regimens for TB infection and TB disease.
Download Ordering Information Materials are available free of charge for order via CDC-Info On Demand Publications (see ordering instructions).
ON THIS PAGE Additional languages Ordering Information SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo 14 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) La historia de Laura PUNTOS CLAVE Laura, una sobreviviente de tuberculosis, describe cómo fue recibir el diagnóstico y tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
La historia de Laura Laura había estado tosiendo por muchos meses.
Varias visitas al médico dieron como resultado una diversidad de diagnósticos: reflujo gastroesofágico, neumonía y bronquitis.
Pero sus síntomas seguían empeorando.
Tenía sudores nocturnos, estaba perdiendo peso, sentía una fatiga intensa, y la tos persistía.
Después de muchos diagnósticos incorrectos, finalmente le diagnosticaron enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
En ese entonces ella no sabía mucho sobre la tuberculosis, más allá de que era contagiosa.
Como maestra, una de sus principales preocupaciones después de enterarse de que tenía enfermedad de tuberculosis activa era el bienestar de sus estudiantes.
Sus amigos, familiares y personas de su comunidad también estaban preocupados.
"La comunidad en donde vivo es muy pequeña.
Una vez que se enteraron de que tenía tuberculosis, por supuesto que se asustaron mucho.
No sabían cómo funciona esta enfermedad ni cómo se contrae.
Y una vez que el departamento de salud les informó, estuvieron más abiertos a aceptarme, a mostrarme su apoyo", recuerda Laura.
Video en baja resolución Tratamiento y apoyo El apoyo de sus padres, su esposo e hijos la ayudó a sobrellevar los difíciles nueve meses de tratamiento de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
El departamento de salud local también tuvo un papel importante.
"Los veo llegar hasta mi puerta todos los días para traerme el medicamento que necesitaba y enseñarme un poquito sobre la tuberculosis", dice Laura.
El mensaje de Laura Con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa ya en el pasado, Laura ahora es miembro activa de la red de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis Somos TB .
Ella quiere compartir sus experiencias con la tuberculosis para aumentar la concientización sobre la enfermedad y ayudar a otras personas.
"Quería concientizar a otras personas.
Concientizar al público sobre la tuberculosis y cómo se puede contraer.
Y a los médicos para que encuentren una mejor cura o para que diagnostiquen la tuberculosis más rápido.
Y a los investigadores, para que descubran un mejor tratamiento, que sea más corto y eficaz para los pacientes", dice Laura.
Si usted es un paciente o sobreviviente de tuberculosis o su familiar, y necesita ayuda, Somos TB es una comunidad de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis, personas que han recibido tratamiento para la tuberculosis y sus familias, comprometidos con la meta común de eliminar la tuberculosis.
EN ESTA PÁGINA La historia de Laura Tratamiento y apoyo El mensaje de Laura FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Epidemic Intelligence Service EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About the Epidemic Intelligence Service Apply What Fellows Do Publications and News Articles Attending EIS Conference Promotion and Recruitment Tools Applying to Host a Fellow Requesting EIS Services VIEW ALL View All Attending EIS Conference JULY 22, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW The annual EIS conference is the nation's flagship applied epidemiology conference where EIS officers share their work in leading-edge investigations, scientific findings, and forward-thinking strategies to inform improvements in public health—all while gaining valuable presentation experience.
EIS officers engage in professional networking sessions, recognition ceremonies and various learning opportunities.
Next Conference EIS officer speaking on the podium Save the Date for the 2026 Annual EIS Conference!
April 20–23, 2026 The 2025 Epidemic Intelligence Service Conference was held April 22-25, 2025, at the Downtown Hyatt Regency Atlanta.
Visit the EIS conference web page to browse the 2025 agenda-at-a-glance and register to watch recorded sessions.
Visit the 2025 EIS Media Resources web page to search abstracts by topic and geographic location.
Continuing Education Deadline to claim continuing education credit was May 25, 2025.
Alexander D.
Langmuir Lecture The Langmuir Lecture is the preeminent public health lecture in the United States.
First given in 1972, this lecture continues to be a highlight of the annual EIS Conference.
The lecture is named for Alexander D.
Langmuir, MD, MPH (1910–1993), a public health visionary and leader who established the Epidemiology Program at what was then called the Communicable Disease Center in 1949.
Langmuir remained as CDC's chief epidemiologist until his retirement in 1970.
Notably, Dr.
Langmuir founded EIS, established national disease surveillance for the United States, and led the development of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report at CDC.
Learn more about Dr.
Langmuir and Epidemiology at CDC.
2025 Alexander D.
Langmuir Lecturer: Anne Schuchat, MD (RADM, USPHS (Ret.)) Audio Description Transcript Low Resolution Video Retired US Public Health Service Rear Admiral and former Assistant Surgeon General, Anne Schuchat, MD, delivered the 2025 Langmuir Lecture, titled "Consequential Epidemiology: An EIS Love Story." Dr.
Schuchat fondly recounted the stories of several EIS officers whose dedication and hard work saved lives and protected the public's health.
Importantly, she provided timely and practical advice for those working in public health.
She even enchanted the crowd by singing not one, but two songs!
To access lectures from previous years, visit the CDC archives page.
Awards Alexander D.
Langmuir Prize Manuscript Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer or recent alumnus for excellence in a written report or an epidemiologic investigation or study.
2025 recipients: Brooke Staley, PhD, MPH (EIS 2023) - Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder diagnosis, treatment, and telehealth use in adults — National Center for Health Statistics Rapid Surveys System, United States, October-November 2023 Kim Gressick, MD, MPH (EIS 2023) and Amy Nham, PharmD, MPH (EIS 2023) - Measles Outbreak Associated with a Migrant Shelter — Chicago, Illinois, February-May 2024 Learn more about this award and past winners.
Anne Schuchat Distinguished Friend of EIS Award This award recognizes an individual for valued contributions that have made an important difference to the health, welfare, and happiness of EIS officers and the EIS Program.
The award honors the mentorship and steadfast devotion of former CDC Principal Deputy Director and EIS alumnus, Anne Schuchat.
2025 recipient: Danice Eaton, PhD, MPH (EIS 2002) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Sencer Scholarship Award The David J.
Sencer Scholarship Award fund was established by the EIS Alumni Association to provide travel scholarships to potential Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) applicants to attend the EIS Conference each year.
2025 recipients: Casey Barber, PhD, MPH; Lyall Glait, MD; Schyler “Zane” Grodman, MD, MS; Kathleen Kuester, PhDc, ScM; Margaret Tomann, PhDc, MSPH; Jerrica L.
Werner, MD, MH; Christopher Yao, MD, MPH; Al-Mounawara Yaya, MD, MPH Learn more about this award and past winners.
Director's Award for Excellence in Epidemiology and Public Health Response 2025 recipient: Rwanda Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Program Learn more about this award and past winners.
Mackel Memorial Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer for the oral presentation that best exemplifies the effective application of a combined epidemiology and laboratory approach to an investigation or study.
2025 recipient: Madhura Vachon, PhD, MPH (EIS 2023) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Hardy Memorial Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer or alumnus who has made an outstanding contribution to the control of vaccine-preventable diseases.
2025 recipient: Nathaniel Lewis, PhD (EIS 2019) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Virgil Peavy Memorial Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer for the oral presentation that best exemplifies the effective and innovative application of statistics and epidemiologic methods in an investigation or study.
2025 recipient: Heather Walker, DVM, MPH (EIS 2023) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Steele Veterinary Public Health Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer or alumnus who has made outstanding contributions in the investigation, control, or prevention of zoonotic diseases or animal-related human health problems.
2025 recipient: Allison James, DVM, MPH, PhD, DACVPM (EIS 2019) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Koplan Award for Excellence in Scientific Presentation Presented during International Night, hosted by the Field Epidemiology Training Program, this award recognizes a current EIS officer with the scientiﬁc poster presentation that most effectively emphasizes the results of an investigation and its impact on public health.
2025 recipient: No award given this year.
Learn more about this award and past winners.
Mitch Singal Excellence in Occupational and Environmental Health Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer who gave an oral presentation that best exemplifies the effective application of public health epidemiology to an investigation in the area of occupational or environmental health.
2025 recipient: Eric Lundstrom, PhD, MPH (EIS 2023) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Outstanding Poster Presentation Award This award is presented to a current EIS officer for the poster that best exemplifies scientific content, including originality, study design and analysis; public health impact; and presentation effectiveness.
2025 recipients: No award given this year.
Schnitker International Health Award This award recognizes a current EIS officer or alumnus who has made a significant contribution to international public health.
2025 recipient: Megan Dorris, MMS, MPH (EIS 2023) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Brachman Award This award recognizes excellence in teaching epidemiology to EIS officers.
2025 recipient: Ralph Cordell, PhD, MA Learn more about this award and past winners.
Irving Health Equity Award This award recognizes a current or former EIS officer's outstanding contributions to health equity and racial disparities research.
2025 recipient: Ghenet Besera, PhD, MPH (EIS 2022) Learn more about this award and past winners.
Thacker Excellence in Mentoring Award This award recognizes an individual who inspires the EIS community and exhibits unwavering commitment to the EIS program, officers, and alumni through demonstrated excellence in applied epidemiology training, mentoring, and building public health capacity.
2025 recipient: Jeff Duchin, MD Learn more about this award and past winners.
Foege Award Presented as the highest honor during International Night, hosted by the Field Epidemiology Training Program, this award is presented to the best oral presentation.
2025 recipient: Ritah Namusoosa, Uganda Field Epidemiology Program; and Yvette Kisaka, Kenya Field Epidemiology Program Learn more about this award and past winners.
ON THIS PAGE Next Conference Alexander D.
Langmuir Lecture SOURCES PRINT SHARE Epidemic Intelligence Service The Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) is a 2 year post-doctoral training program for health professionals interested in practice of applied epidemiology sponsored by the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All APRIL 17, 2025 Treating Inactive Tuberculosis KEY POINTS If you have inactive tuberculosis (TB), also called latent TB infection, treating it is the best way to protect you from getting sick with active TB disease.
Treatment for inactive TB can take three, four, six, or nine months depending on the treatment plan.
Talk to your health care provider about which treatment is best for you.
Treatment overview TB germs can live in your body for years without making you feel sick.
This is called inactive TB.
Even if you do not feel sick, inactive TB can become active TB disease at any time and make you sick.
If you have inactive TB, treating it is the best way to protect you from getting sick with active TB disease.
Prevent active TB disease CDC estimates up to 13 million people in the United States live with inactive TB.
Without treatment, 1 in 10 people with inactive TB will get sick with active TB disease.
TB disease can spread to others and be deadly.
People who are taking certain medications or have certain health conditions that weaken the immune system (such as diabetes, cancer, or HIV) are much more likely to develop active TB disease if infected.
It is especially important for people with these risk factors to complete treatment for inactive TB disease.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Treatment for Latent Tuberculosis Infection Treatment options There are several safe and effective treatment plans recommended in the United States for inactive TB.
A treatment plan (also called treatment regimen) for inactive TB is a schedule to take TB medicines to kill all the TB germs.
Your treatment plan for inactive TB will include: The types of TB medicines to take, How much TB medicine to take, How often to take the TB medicines, How long to take the medicines, How to monitor yourself for any side effects of your TB medicine, and The health care provider(s) who will support you through the treatment process.
You and your health care provider will discuss which treatment plan is best for you.
Treatment for inactive TB can take three, four, six, or nine months depending on the treatment plan.
TB germs are strong, and it can take a long time for them to die.
It is important to take and finish all TB medicines exactly as your health care provider recommends.
The treatment plans for inactive TB use different combinations of medicines that may include: Isoniazid Rifampin Rifapentine Three- and four-month treatment plans These plans are preferred because they are shorter and may be easier to complete: 3HP: Three months of once-weekly isoniazid (H) plus rifapentine (P) 4R: Four months of daily rifampin (R) 3HR: Three months of daily isoniazid (H) plus rifampin (R) Six- and nine-month treatment plans If the three- or four-month treatment plans are not right for you, or not available, your health care provider may recommend other treatment plans: 6H: Six months of isoniazid (H) 9H: Nine months of isoniazid (H) Before starting treatment Tell your health care provider about all medicines you are taking.
Some medicines can interact with the TB medicines and cause a possible side effect or reaction after taking medicine.
Some oral contraceptives (birth control pills) may not work as well when you take them with medicines for inactive TB.
TB medicines can sometimes interfere with birth control pills and possibly make the birth control pills less effective.
If you are taking birth control pills, talk with your health care provider before beginning any new medicines.
Tell your health care provider if you are or think you may be pregnant, or are breastfeeding before you start any TB medicines.
For most pregnant people, treatment for inactive TB can be delayed until after the baby is born.
Drinking alcoholic beverages while taking medicines for TB can be dangerous and may hurt your liver.
Alcoholic beverages include wine, beer, or liquor.
Ask your health care provider about things to avoid while taking medicines for inactive TB.
Side effects Most people can take their TB medicines without any problems.
However, like all medicines, the medicines you take for inactive TB can have side effects.
People react differently to medicines.
Tell your health care provider about anything you think is wrong.
Some side effects are minor.
For example, any TB medicine can cause a skin rash.
Other TB medicines may cause an upset stomach or nausea.
Taking your TB medicine with food can help your body absorb the medicine better.
The rifampin or rifapentine medicines may cause some body fluids to turn an orange color, such as: Urine (pee), Saliva, Tears, Sweat, and Breast milk.
This is normal and harmless.
The color may fade over time.
Also, your health care provider may tell you not to wear soft contact lenses because they may get permanently stained.
If you have any of these side effects, you can continue taking your medicine.
Other side effects are more serious.
If you have a serious side effect, call your health care provider immediately.
You may be told to stop taking your medicines or to return to the clinic for tests.
Serious side effects include: Liver injury Abdominal pain Nausea and vomiting Skin and eyes turning yellow (also called jaundice) Dizziness or lightheadedness Loss of appetite Flu-like symptoms Tingling or numbness in your hands or feet If you are taking isoniazid, you may have tingling or numbness in your hands and feet.
Your health care provider may add vitamin B6 to your treatment plan to prevent this.
Special considerations Children Treatment is recommended for children with inactive TB to prevent them from developing TB disease.
Depending on the TB treatment plan a health care provider prescribes, treatment for inactive TB may take three months, four months, or longer.
Health care providers will consider a child's age, weight, and other factors when prescribing treatment.
People with HIV People with HIV who also have inactive TB can be treated.
If you have HIV and inactive TB, it is very important that you complete treatment for inactive TB to prevent the development of active TB disease.
Tell your health care provider if you have HIV.
Your health care provider will make sure your TB medicines do not interfere with your HIV medicines.
Pregnant women In most cases, women with inactive TB during pregnancy can delay treatment for inactive TB until two to three months post-partum.
If you have a high risk of developing TB disease once infected, your health care provider may recommend starting treatment for inactive TB right away.
Your health care provider will choose TB medicines that are recommended for use during pregnancy and monitor you and your baby during treatment for inactive TB.
Completing treatment If you are diagnosed with inactive TB, there are several short and convenient treatment options available that can help protect you from getting sick with active TB disease.
Your health care provider will work with you to make sure you can complete your treatment.
You may take your medicine on your own, through directly observed therapy (DOT), or a combination of both.
If you take TB medicines on your own If you take your TB medicines on your own, here are tips to help you to remember to take your TB medicines: Take your pills at the same time every day—for example, you can take them before eating breakfast, during a regular coffee break, or after brushing your teeth.
Set an alarm for the time you need to take your medicine.
Write yourself a note as a reminder to take your medicine.
Put it in a place where you can see it, like on your bathroom mirror or on your refrigerator.
Ask a family member or a friend to remind you to take your pills.
Mark off each day on a calendar as you take your medicine.
Put your pills in a weekly pill dispenser that you keep by your bed or in your purse or pocket.
Use a medicine tracker to organize and manage your pills.
CDC has printable medicine trackers available for people taking treatment for inactive TB: 3HP: Three months of once-weekly isoniazid (H) plus rifapentine (P) Regimen Medication Tracker 4R: Four months of daily rifampin (R) Regimen Medication Tracker 3HR: Three months of daily isoniazid (H) plus rifampin (R) Regimen Medication Tracker NOTE: Remember to keep all medicine out of reach of children.
If you forget to take your pills one day, skip that dose and take the next scheduled dose.
Tell your health care provider that you missed a dose.
You may also call your health care provider for instructions.
Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns about treatment for inactive TB.
Directly observed therapy (DOT) is the best way to remember to take your TB medicines.
Through DOT, you will meet with a health care worker every day or several times a week.
These meetings may be in-person or virtual (through a smartphone, tablet, or computer).
The health care worker will watch you take your TB medicines and make sure that the TB medicines are working as they should.
Your health care provider will monitor your treatment.
Your health care provider will meet with you at least monthly to check if you are: Taking the medicine as prescribed, Developing any signs and symptoms of active TB disease, and Having any side effects from the medicines.
They may ask you questions about how you are feeling taking the medicines.
Your health care provider will help to make sure the TB medicines are working the right way and see how your body is handling the medicine.
Keep a record of your treatment.
Even after you finish taking all of your medicine for inactive TB, you may still have a positive test result on future TB blood tests or TB skin tests.
Ask your health care provider for a written record that you have finished treatment for inactive TB.
This will be helpful if you are asked to have another TB test in the future.
Most healthy people will not need to be treated for inactive TB ever again.
However, the treatment you completed only kills the TB germs in your body now.
If you are around someone with active TB disease, there is a chance that you can get new TB germs in your body.
KEEP READING: Preventing Tuberculosis Getting support It is very important to take and finish all TB medicines exactly as prescribed by your health care provider.
Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns about treatment for inactive TB.
Tell your health care provider if you: Have side effects from the TB medicine.
Need help taking your TB medicine.
This includes food, clean water, or transportation.
If you need additional assistance or support in completing treatment for TB Talk to your health care provider.
Your health care provider may be able to share resources with you.
The state or local TB program may be able to provide support or have resources to help you.
Did you know?
Public and private health care plans may cover the costs of treatment for inactive TB.
Ask your family or friends for support.
If you need support while completing treatment for inactive TB, ask your family or friends.
A family member or friend can help you to remember to take your TB medicines.
It can be hard taking TB medicine for several months.
A family member or friend can provide emotional support.
Connect with other TB survivors.
We are TB , and Somos TB for Spanish-speakers, is a community of TB survivors, people being treated for TB, and their family members, committed to the common goal of eliminating TB.
The group provides comprehensive peer support for current TB patients and TB clinics.
You can learn about people's experiences of being diagnosed and treated for inactive TB through CDC's Tuberculosis Personal Stories.
Resources Staying on Track with Tuberculosis Medicine Booklet Download Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download Think.
Treat TB ON THIS PAGE Treatment overview Treatment options Completing treatment Getting support Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 13 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Cómo tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa PUNTOS CLAVE Si tiene la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, puede recibir tratamiento con medicamentos.
Deberá tomar todos sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis hasta terminarlos, según las indicaciones de su proveedor de atención médica.
Dígale a su profesional de atención médica si tiene problemas para tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Información general sobre el tratamiento Los microbios de la tuberculosis se activan si el sistema inmunitario no puede evitar que se multipliquen.
Cuando los microbios de la tuberculosis están activos (multiplicándose en su cuerpo), esto se conoce como enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Las personas con tuberculosis activa se sienten enfermas.
También pueden transmitir los microbios a las personas con las que pasan tiempo todos los días.
Sin tratamiento, esta enfermedad puede ser mortal.
Si tiene la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, puede recibir tratamiento con medicamentos.
Deberá tomar varios medicamentos distintos para la tuberculosis.
La razón es que hay muchos microbios para matar.
Usar varios medicamentos a la vez es más eficaz para matar todos los microbios de la tuberculosis y prevenir que se hagan resistentes a los medicamentos.
Los microbios de la tuberculosis son fuertes y matarlos puede llevar mucho tiempo.
Incluso si comienza a sentirse mejor, es importante tomar y terminar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente como su proveedor de atención médica lo recomiende: Si deja de tomar los medicamentos demasiado pronto, puede volver a enfermarse.
Si no toma los medicamentos correctamente, los microbios de la tuberculosis que aún están vivos pueden volverse resistentes a esos medicamentos.
La tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos es más difícil de tratar.
Opciones de tratamiento Hay varios planes de tratamiento seguros y eficaces recomendados en los Estados Unidos para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Un plan de tratamiento (también llamado esquema de tratamiento) para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa es un calendario para tomar medicamentos para la tuberculosis con el fin de matar todos los microbios de la enfermedad.
Su plan de tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa incluirá: Los tipos de medicamentos que debe tomar.
Qué cantidad debe tomar de los medicamentos.
Con qué frecuencia debe tomar los medicamentos.
Por cuánto tiempo debe tomar los medicamentos.
Cómo monitorearse a sí mismo para detectar cualquier efecto secundario de los medicamentos.
Los proveedores de atención médica que lo apoyarán durante el proceso de tratamiento.
Usted y su proveedor de atención médica hablarán sobre cuál es el plan de tratamiento más adecuado para usted, con base en sus antecedentes médicos y cualquier medicamento que esté tomando actualmente.
El proveedor de atención médica se asegurará de que los medicamentos puedan matar las bacterias de la tuberculosis en su cuerpo.
El tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa puede durar cuatro, seis o nueve meses, según el plan de tratamiento.
Los planes de tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa usan diferentes combinaciones de medicamentos que podrían incluir: Etambutol Isoniacida Moxifloxacino Rifampina (rifampicina) Rifapentina Pirazinamida Antes de empezar el tratamiento Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica todos los medicamentos que está tomando.
Algunos medicamentos pueden interactuar con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis y causar un posible efecto secundario o reacción después de tomarlos.
Algunos anticonceptivos orales (pastillas anticonceptivas) podrían ser menos eficaces cuando se tomen con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Los medicamentos para la tuberculosis a veces pueden afectar el funcionamiento de las pastillas anticonceptivas y posiblemente hacerlas menos eficaces.
Si usted toma pastillas anticonceptivas, hable con su proveedor de atención médica antes de empezar a tomar algún medicamento nuevo.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si está embarazada o cree que podría estarlo, o si está amamantando antes de comenzar cualquier medicamento para la tuberculosis.
Su proveedor de atención médica puede recomendar un plan de tratamiento.
Consumir bebidas alcohólicas mientras toma medicamentos para la tuberculosis puede ser peligroso y dañar su hígado.
Las bebidas alcohólicas incluyen vino, cerveza o licor.
Pregúntele a su proveedor de atención médica sobre las cosas que debe evitar mientras toma medicamentos para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Efectos secundarios La mayoría de las personas pueden tomar los medicamentos para la tuberculosis sin ningún problema.
Sin embargo, al igual que todos los medicamentos, los que tome para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa pueden tener efectos secundarios.
Las personas reaccionan a los medicamentos de diferentes maneras.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si piensa que algo anda mal.
Algunos efectos secundarios son menores.
Por ejemplo, cualquier medicamento para la tuberculosis puede causar un sarpullido en la piel.
Otros medicamentos para la tuberculosis pueden causar malestar estomacal o náuseas.
Tomar su medicamento con alimentos puede ayudar a que su cuerpo lo absorba mejor.
Los medicamentos rifampina o rifapentina pueden hacer que algunos líquidos corporales se tornen de color anaranjado, como los siguientes: la orina (pis), la saliva, las lágrimas, el sudor, y la leche materna.
Esto es normal e inofensivo.
El color podría desaparecer con el tiempo.
Además, si usa lentes de contacto, el proveedor de atención médica podría decirle que use lentes blandos, porque pueden teñirse permanentemente.
Si tiene alguno de estos efectos secundarios, puede seguir tomando sus medicamentos.
Otros efectos secundarios son más graves.
Si presenta un efecto secundario grave, llame a su proveedor de atención médica de inmediato.
Es posible que le indique que deje de tomar los medicamentos o que regrese al centro médico para hacerse pruebas.
Los efectos secundarios graves incluyen: Lesión en el hígado Dolor abdominal Náuseas y vómitos Color amarillento en la piel y los ojos (también llamado ictericia) Mareos o sensación de desmayo Pérdida del apetito Síntomas como los de la influenza (gripe) Hormigueo o adormecimiento en las manos o en los pies Si está tomando isoniacida, podría presentar hormigueo o adormecimiento en las manos y los pies.
El proveedor de atención médica podría agregar vitamina B6 a su plan de tratamiento para prevenir que esto suceda.
Consideraciones especiales Niños El tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en los niños podría durar cuatro meses, seis meses o más.
Los proveedores de atención médica considerarán la edad, el peso y otros factores del niño o la niña al recetar el tratamiento.
Personas con el VIH Hay varias opciones de tratamiento para la tuberculosis en personas con el VIH y con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Su proveedor de atención médica se asegurará de que sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis no interfieran con los medicamentos para el VIH.
Mujeres embarazadas Las mujeres que son diagnosticadas con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa durante el embarazo deberían comenzar el tratamiento de inmediato.
Su proveedor de atención médica elegirá medicamentos para la tuberculosis que sean recomendados para su uso durante el embarazo.
Aunque los medicamentos para la tuberculosis usados en los planes de tratamiento recomendados atraviesan la placenta, estos no son conocidos por tener efectos nocivos en el bebé.
Su proveedor de atención médica los monitoreará a usted y a su bebé durante el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Infórmele si tiene problemas para tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Cómo completar el tratamiento El tratamiento de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa lleva varios meses.
Su proveedor de atención médica trabajará con usted para asegurarse de que pueda completar su tratamiento.
Tome todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente según las indicaciones.
No se salte ninguna dosis ni suspenda el tratamiento antes de terminarlo.
Puede ser muy peligroso dejar de tomar los medicamentos o no tomarlos con regularidad.
Se requiere mucho tiempo para que los medicamentos maten todos los microbios de la tuberculosis.
Es probable que comience a sentirse mejor solo pocas semanas después de comenzar el tratamiento, pero ¡tenga cuidado!
Los microbios de la tuberculosis seguirán estando vivos en su cuerpo, aunque usted se sienta mejor.
Debe continuar tomando los medicamentos hasta que todos los microbios estén muertos, aunque se sienta mejor y ya no tenga síntomas de la enfermedad.
Si su enfermedad vuelve a ser contagiosa, usted podría transmitir microbios de tuberculosis a sus familiares, sus amigos o a cualquier persona que pase tiempo con usted.
Usted puede tomar sus medicamentos a través del tratamiento de observación directa (TOD), por su cuenta o mediante una combinación de ambos.
El tratamiento de observación directa (TOD) es la mejor manera de recordar que tiene que tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
A través del TOD, se reunirá con un trabajador de la salud todos los días o varias veces a la semana.
Estas reuniones pueden ser presenciales o virtuales (a través de un smartphone, una tableta o una computadora).
El trabajador de la salud lo observará mientras toma los medicamentos y se asegurará de que estos estén funcionando del modo esperado.
Si toma los medicamentos para la tuberculosis por su cuenta Si toma los medicamentos para la tuberculosis por su cuenta, aquí hay algunos consejos para ayudarlo a recordar tomarlos: Tome las pastillas todos los días a la misma hora, por ejemplo, antes del desayuno, durante un descanso que tome regularmente o después de lavarse los dientes.
Ponga una alarma para la hora en que debe tomar los medicamentos.
Escríbase una nota que le recuerde tomar los medicamentos.
Póngala en un lugar donde pueda verla, como en el espejo del baño o la puerta del refrigerador.
Pídale a un familiar o amigo que le recuerde tomar sus pastillas.
Marque cada día en un calendario a medida que tome sus medicamentos.
Ponga sus dosis en un pastillero semanal y manténgalo junto a la cama o llévelo en su bolso o en un bolsillo.
Use un registro de medicamentos para organizar y manejar las pastillas que toma.
NOTA: Recuerde mantener todos los medicamentos fuera del alcance de los niños.
Si un día se olvida de tomar las pastillas, sáltese esa dosis y tome la dosis siguiente.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si se saltó alguna dosis.
También puede llamarlo para que le dé instrucciones.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Su proveedor de atención médica monitoreará su tratamiento.
Su proveedor de atención médica le preguntará sobre los efectos secundarios y hará pruebas para ver cómo están funcionando los medicamentos.
Según su plan de tratamiento, su proveedor puede solicitar pruebas de sangre, esputo (flema) u orina mientras esté en tratamiento.
Estas pruebas ayudan a mostrar si los medicamentos para la tuberculosis están funcionando correctamente y cómo su cuerpo está manejando el medicamento.
También es posible que se hagan radiografías adicionales de tórax.
Si tiene enfermedad de tuberculosis activa y otros problemas de salud, como infección por el VIH o diabetes, podría necesitar hacerse pruebas de sangre, esputo (flema) u orina antes y después del tratamiento.
Asegúrese de mantener sus citas en el centro médico y hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene algún problema con sus medicamentos.
Lleve un registro de su tratamiento.
Incluso después de terminar de tomar todos los medicamentos para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, aún podría tener un resultado positivo en futuras pruebas de sangre o pruebas cutáneas de la tuberculina.
Pídale a su proveedor de atención médica un registro por escrito que indique que ha completado el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Esto le servirá si se le pide que se haga otra prueba en el futuro.
La mayoría de las personas sanas no necesitarán ser tratadas nuevamente por la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Sin embargo, el tratamiento que completó solo mata los microbios que tiene actualmente en el cuerpo.
Si está cerca de alguien con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, existe la posibilidad de que pueda tener nuevos microbios en el cuerpo.
Cómo obtener apoyo Es muy importante tomar y completar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente como lo indicó su proveedor de atención médica.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Infórmele a su proveedor de atención médica si: Tiene efectos secundarios por los medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Necesita ayuda para tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Esto incluye alimentos, agua limpia o transporte.
Si necesita asistencia o apoyo adicionales para completar el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Hable con su proveedor de atención médica.
El programa estatal o local de control de la tuberculosis (enlace en inglés) podría proporcionar apoyo o tener recursos que lo ayuden.
Pídales apoyo a sus familiares o amigos.
Si necesita apoyo mientras completa el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, pida ayuda a su familia o amigos.
Un miembro de la familia o un amigo podrían ayudarlo a recordar tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Puede ser difícil tomar medicamentos durante varios meses.
Un familiar o amigo podrían ofrecer apoyo emocional y quizás puedan ayudarlo a obtener recursos, como alimentos y compras de supermercado si debe mantenerse alejado de otras personas mientras recibe tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Comuníquese con otros sobrevivientes de tuberculosis.
We are TB (enlace en inglés) y Somos TB (para los hispanohablantes) es una comunidad de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis, personas que reciben tratamiento para la tuberculosis y sus familiares, que están comprometidos con la meta común de eliminar la tuberculosis.
El grupo proporciona apoyo mutuo integral a los pacientes actuales y a los centros médicos de tuberculosis.
Puede obtener información sobre las experiencias de personas que han sido diagnosticadas y tratadas por la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en la página web de los CDC Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis.
Recursos Folleto Seguir el tratamiento con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis Descargar Hoja informativa Lo que debe saber sobre la tuberculosis Descargar Documento "Preguntas y respuestas sobre la tuberculosis" Descargar EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general sobre el tratamiento Opciones de tratamiento Cómo completar el tratamiento Cómo obtener apoyo Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo tratar la tuberculosis inactiva La enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica VER TODO Tuberculosis La enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Infrastructure Center EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices About Us Center Leadership VIEW ALL View All About Division of Workforce Development SEPT.
19, 2025 AT A GLANCE The Division of Workforce Development (DWD) provides leadership in public health workforce development.
This involves leading advancements in training, developing, and retaining the nation’s public health workforce.
In this role, we chart a path forward at all levels of the public health system.
What we do We create pathways to careers in public health.
Our programs provide quality learning experiences across the workforce continuum.
Programs range from opportunities for middle and high school STEM teachers to service-learning fellowships.
We upskill the current public health workforce.
We offer and promote quality training opportunities.
We connect partners and health professionals with accredited, competency-based training from CDC, other federal agencies, and federally funded partners.
We build evidence of what works and promote use of best practices.
We support efforts to define and build evidence to address public health workforce needs.
The Public Health Workforce Research Center is an example of how we build evidence.
We strategically partner to address workforce priorities.
We collaborate with national, state, tribal, local, and territorial organizations to advance public health.
Goals View Larger DWD Strategic Framework Infographic Show Text Description Goal 1: Quality Learning Strengthen education, training, and professional development of the public health workforce.
Strengthen the skills of the current public health workforce through quality, accredited, competency-based training Promote career pathways in governmental public health through workforce development programs Goal 2: Valuable Service Improve public health impact through service and response.
Address needs of CDC programs, state, Tribal, local, and territorial health departments, public health labs, and partners through fellows’ service-learning assignments Partner with CDC’s centers, institute, and offices in response to urgent domestic and international public health needs through short-term technical assistance Goal 3: National Leadership Provide leadership in public health workforce efforts.
Facilitate the use of standards and best practices for public health training and workforce development programs Define public health workforce needs and build evidence to address identified needs Strategically address workforce priorities with partners Help tell the public health workforce story, therein expanding reach and awareness of challenges, opportunities, and outcomes Goal 4: Organizational Capacity Maximize DWDs potential for achieving impact.
Prioritize core work and ensure alignment of staff and resources Strengthen the division’s foundational capabilities and cross-cutting servicesA Support professional development for DWD staff Our impact DWD's work attracts and maintains a steady flow of fellows ready to launch their public health careers.
They provide critical capacity, support, and technical assistance to state, tribal, local, and territorial health departments and public health partners.
We accredit, promote, and deliver quality learning opportunities for health professionals to improve health.
These opportunities offer free CE credits—saving public health professionals millions of dollars in fees.
By the Numbers More than 13,030A participants trained in DWD's fellowship and student programs since the first EIS officers in 1951.
891 participants trained in DWD’s fellowship, training-in-place, and student programs in fiscal year 2024B alone.
DWD fellows supported 137 responses to technical assistanceC requests from state, local, and national public health authorities in fiscal year 2024B alone.
More than 6,320A responses to technical assistanceC requests from state, local, and national public health authorities since 1946.
More than 456,000 unique learners completed over 1.3 million courses in CDC TRAIND in fiscal year 2024B.
More than 205,000 unique health professionals earned free continuing education (CE) in fiscal year 2024B.
Our work The Division of Workforce Development (DWD) offers services and support to state, local, tribal, and territorial public health departments and partners.
Staffing Support through Fellow Assignments State, tribal, local, and territorial health departments and public health partners can apply to host a fellow from several of our programs.
Our fellows lend a variety of skills to increase workforce capacity.
Working alongside mentors and subject matter experts, fellows and interns gain experience for future public health careers.
Find out how to become a host site for CDC fellowships.
Technical Assistance and Deployments Public health partners can request short-term technical assistance from our fellows.
During their deployment, fellows work closely with the jurisdiction's public health authorities and appropriate subject matter experts at CDC.
This opportunity provides a mutual benefit for the fellows and the agency needing assistance.
Officials with authority for public health can request technical assistance through several mechanisms: Epi-Aid Allows rapid, short-term (1–3 weeks), generally onsite, technical assistance by Epidemic Intelligence Service officers.
 Lab-Aid Allows rapid, short-term (1-3 weeks) support to public health labs for laboratory testing or operational needs by Laboratory Leadership Service fellows.
Request a Lab-Aid.
Info-Aid Short-term technical assistance to address an urgent public health need for applied information science, through the Public Health Informatics Fellowship Program.
Request an Info-Aid.
Our fellows also participate in emergency response or other urgent public health events.
They can deploy to local communities or to CDC's Emergency Operations Center.
Support for Training Development and Accreditation DWD provides resources to help public health partners develop quality trainings that improve staff competence and capacity.
Training programs that meet CDC quality training standards can better prepare health professionals to meet today's challenges.
Training development resources aid in designing and evaluating online and classroom trainings.
Continuing education accreditation services are available for programs and CDC-funded partners.
Resources Have a question about fellowships, training services, or other public health workforce development activities?
ON THIS PAGE What we do Goals Our impact Our work Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Infrastructure Center CDC’s National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce provides effective and efficient delivery of public health infrastructure and workforce development services.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Update of Recommendations for Use of Once-Weekly Isoniazid-Rifapentine Regimen to Treat Latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection Weekly / June 29, 2018 / 67(25);723–726 Print Andrey S.
Borisov, MD1; Sapna Bamrah Morris, MD1; Gibril J.
Njie, MPH1; Carla A.
CDC identified the use of 3HP in those populations, as well as self-administration of the 3HP regimen, as areas to address in updated recommendations.
In 2017, a CDC Work Group conducted a systematic review and meta-analyses of the 3HP regimen using methods adapted from the Guide to Community Preventive Services.
In total, 19 articles representing 15 unique studies were included in the meta-analysis, which determined that 3HP is as safe and effective as other recommended LTBI regimens and achieves substantially higher treatment completion rates.
In July 2017, the Work Group presented the meta-analysis findings to a group of TB experts, and in December 2017, CDC solicited input from the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET) and members of the public for incorporation into the final recommendations.
CDC continues to recommend 3HP for treatment of LTBI in adults and now recommends use of 3HP 1) in persons with LTBI aged 2–17 years; 2) in persons with LTBI who have HIV infection, including acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and are taking antiretroviral medications with acceptable drug-drug interactions with rifapentine; and 3) by DOT or self-administered therapy (SAT) in persons aged ≥2 years.
Top Systematic Review A CDC Work Group including epidemiologists, health scientists, physicians from CDC’s Tuberculosis Elimination program, and a CDC library specialist, was convened to conduct the systematic literature review using methods adapted from the Guide to Community Preventive Services (2,3).
The library specialist used a systematic search strategy to identify and retrieve intervention studies on the use of 3HP to treat LTBI that were published from January 2006 through June 2017 and indexed in the MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, Scopus, and Clinicaltrials.gov databases.
To identify missed studies, reference lists from included articles were reviewed, and CDC’s TB experts were consulted.
This review included English language articles that met the following criteria: 1) the study design was randomized controlled trial, quasi-experimental, observational cohort, or other design with a concurrent comparison group; 2) the target population included, but was not restricted to, persons aged ≥12 years, children aged 2–11 years, or persons with HIV infection; and 3) outcomes reported were prevention of TB disease, treatment completion, adverse events while on 3HP, discontinuation as a result of adverse events while on 3HP, or death while on 3HP.
Two reviewers from the CDC Work Group independently screened citations obtained from the search and retrieved full-text articles in the relevant literature to be synthesized.
Using a standard data abstraction form, the reviewers abstracted data on intervention characteristics, outcomes of interest, demographics, benefits, harms, considerations for implementation, and evidence gaps.
Each study was also assessed for threats to internal and external validity per Guide to Community Preventive Services standards (2,3).
Any disagreement between reviewers was resolved by consensus of the CDC Work Group members.
The CDC Work Group reviewed 292 citations retrieved from the librarian’s search.
Of these, 30 full-text articles were ordered and screened for inclusion.
In total, 19 articles representing 15 unique studies were included in the meta-analysis.
Findings from the meta-analysis indicated that 3HP is as safe and effective as other recommended LTBI regimens and achieves significantly higher treatment completion rates.
Complete results of the systematic review and meta-analysis have been published elsewhere (4).
Overall, the majority of included studies were of greatest design suitability and good quality of execution, as defined by the Guide to Community Preventive Services (2,3).
Issues related to poor reporting of appropriate analytic methods and possible selection bias were the most common limitations assigned to the body of evidence.
Recently published randomized control trials that were heavily weighted in the meta-analyses and drug interaction studies (5–9) are summarized as follows: Study of 3HP in children.
A large randomized clinical trial of 3HP administered by DOT, which included children aged 2–17 years, demonstrated that 3HP was as well-tolerated and as effective as 9 months of daily isoniazid (9H) for preventing TB (5).
The trial also reported that 3HP was safe and had higher treatment completion rates than 9H (5).
Studies of 3HP in persons with HIV infection, including AIDS.
In 2011, CDC recommended the 3HP regimen for treatment of LTBI in persons with HIV infection, including AIDS, who are otherwise healthy and who are not taking antiretroviral medications (1).
Since that time, additional data confirm not only the effectiveness of 3HP in persons with HIV infection who are not taking antiretroviral therapy, but also demonstrate the absence of clinically significant drug interactions between once-weekly rifapentine and either efavirenz or raltegravir in persons with HIV infection who are treated with those antiretroviral medications (4,6–8).
Study of self-administered therapy.
A randomized clinical trial demonstrating noninferior treatment completion and safety of 3HP-SAT compared with 3HP-DOT in persons aged ≥18 years in the United States provides the primary evidence on 3HP administration by SAT (9).
Top Expert Consultation In July 2017, CDC met with nine non-CDC subject matter experts in TB and LTBI diagnosis, treatment, prevention, surveillance, epidemiology, clinical research, pulmonology, pediatrics, HIV/AIDS, public health programs, and patient advocacy.
CDC presented the systematic review results and proposed recommendations to the experts, who provided 1) individual perspectives on the review; 2) experience with implementation of the 3HP regimen in various settings and populations; and 3) individual viewpoints on the proposed updates.
Subject matter experts from programs prescribing 3HP described benefits of this regimen, including increased acceptance and completion of treatment.
Some experts reported that several health departments are currently using 3HP, with high treatment completion, in children as young as age 2 years.
Some noted that the 2011 recommendation to administer 3HP by DOT limits use of the regimen.
In December 2017, CDC solicited input from ACET and members of the public for incorporation into the final recommendations.
New data on efficacy and safety of 3HP in children were determined sufficient to recommend the 3HP regimen for treatment of LTBI in children aged ≥2 years (4).
Concerning patients with HIV infection, information about interactions between specific antimycobacterial agents, including rifamycins (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin, and rifapentine) and antiretroviral agents, is available in the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services Guidelines for the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in HIV-1-Infected Adults and Adolescents.
These frequently updated guidelines include a section addressing management of LTBI in persons with HIV coinfection and tables with information on drug interactions.* Use of concomitant LTBI treatment and antiretroviral agents should be guided by clinicians experienced in the management of both conditions.
In 2011, CDC recommended use of the 3HP regimen by DOT (1).
Treatment completion rates are highest when the regimen is administered by DOT (4).
However, the burden and expense of DOT is greater than that for SAT (9).
During the expert consultation and again during review by ACET, some subject matter experts strongly recommended permitting use of SAT, when combined with clinical monitoring, in children aged ≥2 years.
Based on this expert opinion, ACET formally recommended expansion of the option of parentally administered SAT to children.
Some experts still prefer DOT for treating LTBI in children aged 2–5 years, in whom risk for TB progression and severe disease is higher than that in older children and adults.
Health care providers should make joint decisions about SAT with each individual patient (and parent or legal guardian), considering program resources and the patient’s age, medical history, social circumstances, and risk factors for progression to severe TB disease.
Subject matter experts stressed the importance of educating providers and patients about 3HP.
Top Recommendations Based on evidence on effectiveness, safety, and treatment completion rates from the systematic review, and after consideration of viewpoints from TB subject matter experts and input from ACET and the public, CDC continues to recommend 3HP for treatment of LTBI in adults and now recommends use of 3HP 1) in persons with LTBI aged 2–17 years; 2) in persons with LTBI who have HIV infection, including AIDS, and are taking antiretroviral medications with acceptable drug-drug interactions with rifapentine; and 3) by DOT or SAT in persons aged ≥2 years.
The health care provider should choose the mode of administration (DOT versus SAT) based on local practice, individual patient attributes and preferences, and other considerations, including risk for progression to severe forms of TB disease.
Use of concomitant LTBI treatment and antiretroviral agents should be guided by clinicians experienced in the management of both conditions (Box 1).
Patient monitoring and adverse events.
Hepatic enzymes and other blood tests should be performed for certain patients before initiation of 3HP therapy (Box 2).
Approximately 4% of all patients using 3HP experience flu-like or other systemic drug reactions, with fever, headache, dizziness, nausea, muscle and bone pain, rash, itching, red eyes, or other symptoms (4,10).
Approximately 5% of persons discontinue 3HP because of adverse events, including systemic drug reactions (4,10); these reactions typically occur after the first 3–4 doses, and begin approximately 4 hours after ingestion of medication (10).
Hypotension and syncope have been reported rarely (two cases per 1,000 persons treated) (4,10).
If symptoms suggestive of a systemic drug reaction occur, patients should stop 3HP while the cause is determined.
Symptoms usually resolve without treatment within 24 hours.
Neutropenia and elevation of liver enzymes occur uncommonly (4,10).
CDC recommends that health care providers educate patients to report adverse events.
Patient use of symptom checklists might facilitate timely recognition and reporting.† Rifapentine is a rifamycin compound; like rifampin, it induces metabolism of many medications.
CDC recommends monitoring of patients when 3HP is prescribed with interacting medications (e.g., methadone or warfarin).
Rifapentine can reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives; therefore, women who use hormonal birth control should be advised to add, or switch to, a barrier method.
Women should be advised to inform their health care provider if they decide to try to become pregnant or become pregnant during 3HP treatment.
Because altered dosing might reduce effectiveness or safety, patients on 3HP SAT should be encouraged to record medication intake and report deviations from the prescribed regimen.
Persons on 3HP regimens should be evaluated monthly (in person or by telephone) to assess adherence and adverse effects.
Any LTBI treatment–associated adverse effect leading to hospital admission or death should be reported by health care providers to local or state health departments for inclusion in the National Surveillance for Severe Adverse Events Associated with Treatment for LTBI (e-mail: ltbidrugevents@cdc.gov).
Serious drug side effects, product quality problems, and therapeutic failures should be reported to the Food and Drug Administration’s MedWatch program ( or by telephoning 1-800-FDA-1088.
Additional information regarding 3HP is available at 
Questions also can be directed to CDC’s Division of Tuberculosis Elimination by e-mail (cdcinfo@cdc.gov) or by telephoning 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636).
Top Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported.
Top Corresponding author: Andrey S.
Borisov, aborisov@cdc.gov, 404-639-8056.
Top 1Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Top *  .
† Examples of patient’s medication intake log and symptoms checklists are available at 
Top References CDC.
Recommendations for use of an isoniazid-rifapentine regimen with direct observation to treat latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60:1650–3.
PubMed Briss PA, Zaza S, Pappaioanou M, et al.
; The Task Force on Community Preventive Services.
Developing an evidence-based Guide to Community Preventive Services—methods.
Am J Prev Med 2000;18(Suppl):35–43.
CrossRef PubMed Zaza S, Wright-De Agüero LK, Briss PA, et al.
; Task Force on Community Preventive Services.
Data collection instrument and procedure for systematic reviews in the Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Am J Prev Med 2000;18(Suppl):44–74.
CrossRef PubMed Njie GJ, Morris SB, Woodruff RY, Moro RN, Vernon AA, Borisov AS.
Isoniazid-rifapentine for latent tuberculosis infection: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Am J Prev Med 2018.
Epub June 11, 2018.
CrossRef PubMed Villarino ME, Scott NA, Weis SE, et al.
; International Maternal Pediatric and Adolescents AIDS Clinical Trials Group; Tuberculosis Trials Consortium.
Treatment for preventing tuberculosis in children and adolescents: a randomized clinical trial of a 3-month, 12-dose regimen of a combination of rifapentine and isoniazid.
JAMA Pediatr 2015;169:247–55.
CrossRef PubMed Sterling TR, Scott NA, Miro JM, et al.
; Tuberculosis Trials Consortium; AIDS Clinical Trials Group for the PREVENT TB Trial.
Three months of weekly rifapentine and isoniazid for treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in HIV-coinfected persons.
AIDS 2016;30:1607–15.
CrossRef PubMed Weiner M, Egelund EF, Engle M, et al.
Pharmacokinetic interaction of rifapentine and raltegravir in healthy volunteers.
J Antimicrob Chemother 2014;69:1079–85.
CrossRef PubMed Podany AT, Bao Y, Swindells S, et al.
; AIDS Clinical Trials Group A5279 Study Team.
Efavirenz pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in HIV-infected persons receiving rifapentine and isoniazid for tuberculosis prevention.
Clin Infect Dis 2015;61:1322–7.
CrossRef PubMed Belknap R, Holland D, Feng PJ, et al.
; TB Trials Consortium iAdhere Study Team.
Self-administered versus directly observed once-weekly isoniazid and rifapentine treatment of latent tuberculosis infection: a randomized trial.
Ann Intern Med 2017;167:689–97.
PubMed Sterling TR, Moro RN, Borisov AS, et al.
; Tuberculosis Trials Consortium.
Flu-like and other systemic drug reactions among persons receiving weekly rifapentine plus isoniazid or daily isoniazid for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in the PREVENT Tuberculosis study.
Clin Infect Dis 2015;61:527–35.
CrossRef PubMed Top BOX 1.
Updated recommendations for once-weekly isoniazid-rifapentine for 12 weeks (3HP) for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection CDC continues to recommend use of the short-course combination regimen of once-weekly isoniazid-rifapentine for 12 weeks (3HP) for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) in adults.
With regard to age limits, HIV infection, and administration of the treatment, CDC now also recommends the following: use of 3HP in persons aged 2–17 years; use of 3HP in persons with LTBI who are living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, including acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and taking antiretroviral medications with acceptable drug-drug interactions with rifapentine*; and use of 3HP by directly observed therapy (DOT) or self-administered therapy (SAT) in persons aged ≥2 years; the health care provider should choose the mode of administration (DOT versus SAT) based on local practice, individual patient attributes and preferences, and other considerations, including risk for progression to severe forms of tuberculosis disease.
*  .
Guidance to health care providers during treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) with a combination regimen of isoniazid and rifapentine in 12 once-weekly doses (3HP) Evaluate all patients for active tuberculosis disease both before and during treatment of LTBI.
Inform the patient or parents or legal guardians about possible adverse effects and instruct them to seek medical attention when symptoms of possible adverse reaction first appear; particularly drug hypersensitivity reactions, rash, hypotension, or thrombocytopenia.
Conduct monthly evaluations to assess treatment adherence and adverse effects, with repeated patient education regarding adverse effects at each visit.
Conduct blood tests at subsequent clinical encounters for patients whose baseline testing is abnormal and for others at risk for liver disease.
Discontinue 3HP if a serum AST concentration is ≥5 times the upper limit of normal in the absence of symptoms or ≥3 times the upper limit of normal in the presence of symptoms.
In case of a possible severe adverse reaction, discontinue 3HP and provide supportive medical care.
Conservative management and continuation of 3HP under observation can be considered in the presence of mild to moderate adverse events as determined by health care provider.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Borisov AS, Bamrah Morris S, Njie GJ, et al.
Update of Recommendations for Use of Once-Weekly Isoniazid-Rifapentine Regimen to Treat Latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:723–726.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 13 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Cómo tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos PUNTOS CLAVE Enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos significa que los medicamentos ya no pueden matar los microbios.
Es complicado tratar y curar la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Las personas con enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos deben recibir tratamiento con medicamentos especiales.
Información general sobre el tratamiento Hay diferentes tipos de enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos, según a cuáles medicamentos sean resistentes los microbios de la tuberculosis.
Las personas con esta enfermedad deben ser tratadas con medicamentos que puedan matar los microbios de la tuberculosis.
Si usted tiene tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos, su proveedor de atención médica le recomendará un plan de tratamiento específico para su tipo particular de enfermedad de tuberculosis.
Un plan de tratamiento (también llamado esquema de tratamiento) para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos es un calendario para tomar medicamentos para la tuberculosis con el fin de matar todos los microbios de la enfermedad.
Su plan de tratamiento para esta enfermedad incluirá: Los tipos de medicamentos que debe tomar.
Qué cantidad debe tomar de los medicamentos.
Con qué frecuencia debe tomar los medicamentos.
Por cuánto tiempo debe tomar los medicamentos.
Cómo monitorearse a sí mismo para detectar cualquier efecto secundario de los medicamentos.
Los proveedores de atención médica que lo apoyarán durante el proceso de tratamiento.
Opciones de tratamiento Es complicado tratar y curar la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Si tiene esta enfermedad, debe ser tratado con medicamentos especiales que sean lo suficientemente fuertes para matar los microbios de la tuberculosis.
El tratamiento podría durar mucho, a veces meses o años, y los medicamentos pueden causar efectos secundarios.
Los diferentes tipos de enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos dependen de a cuáles medicamentos sean resistentes las bacterias de tuberculosis.
Un experto médico en tuberculosis puede ayudar a recetar los mejores medicamentos para tratar la enfermedad y monitorear su tratamiento cuidadosamente para asegurarse de que los medicamentos estén funcionando.
Tratamiento de observación directa (TOD) Si tiene tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos, se reunirá en persona con un proveedor de atención médica para tomar sus medicamentos.
Esto se llama tratamiento de observación directa (TOD).
El TOD es una forma de ayudarlo a completar el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
A través del TOD, se reunirá con un trabajador de la salud todos los días o varias veces a la semana.
Estas reuniones pueden ser presenciales o virtuales (a través de un smartphone, una tableta o una computadora).
El trabajador de la salud lo observará mientras toma los medicamentos y se asegurará de que estos estén funcionando del modo esperado.
Efectos secundarios Los medicamentos para tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos son diferentes a aquellos usados para tratar la tuberculosis inactiva, también conocida como infección de tuberculosis latente, y la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Pueden causar efectos secundarios distintos a los de otros tipos de medicamentos.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica sobre los posibles efectos secundarios de los medicamentos que está tomando para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Cómo completar el tratamiento Su proveedor de atención médica lo ayudará a completar el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Tome todos los medicamentos contra la tuberculosis exactamente según las indicaciones.
No se salte ninguna dosis ni suspenda el tratamiento antes de terminarlo.
Puede ser muy peligroso dejar de tomar los medicamentos o no tomarlos con regularidad.
Su proveedor de atención médica monitoreará su tratamiento.
Su proveedor de atención médica necesita ver cómo sigue.
No falte a ninguna cita médica mientras esté recibiendo tratamiento.
Su proveedor de atención médica le preguntará sobre los efectos secundarios y hará pruebas para ver cómo están funcionando los medicamentos.
Según su plan de tratamiento, su proveedor puede solicitar pruebas de sangre, esputo (flema) u orina mientras esté en tratamiento.
Estas pruebas ayudan a mostrar si los medicamentos para la tuberculosis están funcionando correctamente y cómo su cuerpo está manejando el medicamento.
También es posible que se hagan radiografías adicionales de tórax.
Lleve un registro de su tratamiento.
Incluso después de terminar de tomar todos los medicamentos para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos, aún podría tener un resultado positivo en futuras pruebas de sangre o pruebas cutáneas de la tuberculina.
Pídale a su proveedor de atención médica un registro por escrito que indique que ha completado el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Esto le servirá si se le pide que se haga otra prueba en el futuro.
La mayoría de las personas sanas no necesitarán ser tratadas nuevamente por la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Sin embargo, el tratamiento que completó solo mata los microbios que tiene actualmente en el cuerpo.
Si está cerca de alguien con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, existe la posibilidad de que pueda tener nuevos microbios en el cuerpo.
Cómo obtener apoyo Es muy importante tomar y completar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente como lo indicó su proveedor de atención médica.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Infórmele a su proveedor de atención médica si: Tiene efectos secundarios por los medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Necesita ayuda para tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Esto incluye alimentos, agua limpia o transporte.
Si necesita asistencia o apoyo adicionales para completar el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos Hable con su proveedor de atención médica.
El programa estatal o local de control de la tuberculosis (enlace en inglés) podría proporcionar apoyo o tener recursos que lo ayuden.
Pídales apoyo a sus familiares o amigos.
Si necesita apoyo mientras completa el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos, pida ayuda a su familia o amigos.
Un miembro de la familia o un amigo pueden ayudarlo a recordar tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Puede ser difícil tomar estos medicamentos por tanto tiempo.
Un familiar o amigo pueden ofrecer apoyo emocional y quizás puedan ayudarlo a obtener recursos, como alimentos y compras de supermercado si debe mantenerse alejado de otras personas mientras recibe tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos.
Comuníquese con otros sobrevivientes de tuberculosis.
We are TB (enlace en inglés) y Somos TB (para los hispanohablantes) es una comunidad de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis, personas que reciben tratamiento para la tuberculosis y sus familiares, que están comprometidos con la meta común de eliminar la tuberculosis.
El grupo proporciona apoyo mutuo integral a los pacientes actuales y a los centros médicos de tuberculosis.
Puede obtener información sobre las experiencias de personas que han sido diagnosticadas y tratadas por la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos en la página web de los CDC Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis.
Recursos Folleto Seguir el tratamiento con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis Descargar Hoja informativa Lo que debe saber sobre la tuberculosis Descargar Documento "Preguntas y respuestas sobre la tuberculosis" Descargar EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general sobre el tratamiento Opciones de tratamiento Cómo completar el tratamiento Cómo obtener apoyo Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo tratar la tuberculosis inactiva Cómo tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica VER TODO Tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 13 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Cómo tratar la tuberculosis inactiva PUNTOS CLAVE Si usted tiene tuberculosis inactiva, también conocida como infección de tuberculosis latente, tratarla es la mejor forma de protegerse para que no le cause la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
El tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva puede durar cuatro, seis o nueve meses, según el plan de tratamiento.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica sobre cuál tratamiento es más adecuado para usted.
Información general sobre el tratamiento Los microbios de la tuberculosis pueden vivir en su cuerpo durante años sin que usted se sienta enfermo.
Esto se llama tuberculosis inactiva.
Aunque no se sienta enfermo, la tuberculosis inactiva puede volverse activa en cualquier momento y enfermarlo.
Si usted tiene tuberculosis inactiva, tratarla es la mejor forma de protegerse para que no le cause la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Cómo prevenir la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Los CDC estiman que hasta 13 millones de personas en los Estados Unidos viven con tuberculosis inactiva.
Sin tratamiento, 1 de cada 10 personas con tuberculosis inactiva se enfermará de tuberculosis activa.
La enfermedad de tuberculosis se puede propagar a otras personas y ser mortal.
Las personas que están tomando ciertos medicamentos o tienen ciertas condiciones médicas que debilitan el sistema inmunitario (como diabetes, cáncer o VIH) tienen muchas más probabilidades de presentar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa si se infectan.
Es especialmente importante que las personas con estos factores de riesgo completen el tratamiento para la enfermedad de tuberculosis inactiva.
Opciones de tratamiento Hay varios planes de tratamiento seguros y eficaces recomendados en los Estados Unidos para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Un plan de tratamiento (también llamado esquema de tratamiento) para la tuberculosis inactiva es un calendario para tomar medicamentos para la tuberculosis con el fin de matar todos los microbios de la enfermedad.
Su plan de tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva incluirá: Los tipos de medicamentos que debe tomar.
Qué cantidad debe tomar de los medicamentos.
Con qué frecuencia debe tomar los medicamentos.
Por cuánto tiempo debe tomar los medicamentos.
Cómo monitorearse a sí mismo para detectar cualquier efecto secundario de los medicamentos.
Los proveedores de atención médica que lo apoyarán durante el proceso de tratamiento.
Usted y su proveedor de atención médica hablarán sobre cuál es el plan de tratamiento más adecuado para usted.
El tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva puede durar cuatro, seis o nueve meses, según el plan de tratamiento.
Los microbios de la tuberculosis son fuertes y matarlos puede llevar mucho tiempo.
Es importante tomar y completar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente como lo recomienda su proveedor de atención médica.
Los planes de tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva usan diferentes combinaciones de medicamentos que podrían incluir: Isoniacida Rifampina (rifampicina) Rifapentina Planes de tratamiento de tres y cuatro meses Estos planes se prefieren porque son más cortos y pueden ser más fáciles de completar: 3HP (por sus siglas en inglés): Tres meses de isoniacida (H) más rifapentina (P) una vez a la semana 4R (por sus siglas en inglés): Cuatro meses de rifampina (rifampicina) (R) diaria 3HR (por sus siglas en inglés): Tres meses de isoniacida (H) más rifampina (rifampicina) (R) diarias Planes de tratamiento de seis y nueve meses Si los planes de tratamiento de tres o cuatro meses no son adecuados para usted o no están disponibles, su proveedor de atención médica podría recomendar otros planes de tratamiento: 6H (por sus siglas en inglés): Seis meses de isoniacida (H) 9H (por sus siglas en inglés): Nueve meses de isoniacida (H) Antes de empezar el tratamiento Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica todos los medicamentos que está tomando.
Algunos medicamentos pueden interactuar con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis y causar un posible efecto secundario o reacción después de tomarlos.
Algunos anticonceptivos orales (pastillas anticonceptivas) podrían ser menos eficaces cuando se tomen con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Los medicamentos para la tuberculosis a veces pueden afectar el funcionamiento de las pastillas anticonceptivas y posiblemente hacerlas menos eficaces.
Si usted toma pastillas anticonceptivas, hable con su proveedor de atención médica antes de empezar a tomar algún medicamento nuevo.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si está embarazada o cree que podría estarlo, o si está amamantando antes de comenzar cualquier medicamento para la tuberculosis.
Para la mayoría de las mujeres embarazadas, el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva se puede retrasar hasta después del nacimiento del bebé.
Consumir bebidas alcohólicas mientras toma medicamentos para la tuberculosis puede ser peligroso y dañar su hígado.
Las bebidas alcohólicas incluyen vino, cerveza o licor.
Pregúntele a su proveedor de atención médica sobre las cosas que debe evitar mientras toma medicamentos para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Efectos secundarios La mayoría de las personas pueden tomar los medicamentos para la tuberculosis sin ningún problema.
Sin embargo, al igual que todos los medicamentos, los que tome para la tuberculosis inactiva pueden tener efectos secundarios.
Las personas reaccionan a los medicamentos de diferentes maneras.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si piensa que algo anda mal.
Algunos efectos secundarios son menores.
Por ejemplo, cualquier medicamento para la tuberculosis puede causar un sarpullido en la piel.
Otros medicamentos para la tuberculosis pueden causar malestar estomacal o náuseas.
Tomar su medicamento con alimentos puede ayudar a que su cuerpo lo absorba mejor.
Los medicamentos rifampina o rifapentina pueden hacer que algunos líquidos corporales se tornen de color anaranjado, como los siguientes: la orina (pis), la saliva, las lágrimas, el sudor, y la leche materna.
Esto es normal e inofensivo.
El color podría desaparecer con el tiempo.
Además, si usa lentes de contacto, el proveedor de atención médica podría decirle que use lentes blandos, porque pueden teñirse permanentemente.
Si tiene alguno de estos efectos secundarios, puede seguir tomando sus medicamentos.
Otros efectos secundarios son más graves.
Si presenta un efecto secundario grave, llame a su proveedor de atención médica de inmediato.
Es posible que le indique que deje de tomar los medicamentos o que regrese al centro médico para hacerse pruebas.
Los efectos secundarios graves incluyen: Lesión en el hígado Dolor abdominal Náuseas y vómitos Color amarillento en la piel y los ojos (también llamado ictericia) Mareos o sensación de desmayo Pérdida del apetito Síntomas como los de la influenza (gripe) Hormigueo o adormecimiento en las manos o en los pies Si está tomando isoniacida, podría presentar hormigueo o adormecimiento en las manos y los pies.
El proveedor de atención médica podría agregar vitamina B6 a su plan de tratamiento para prevenir que esto suceda.
Consideraciones especiales Niños Se recomienda el tratamiento en los niños con tuberculosis inactiva para prevenir que la infección se convierta en enfermedad de tuberculosis.
Según el plan de tratamiento para la tuberculosis que un proveedor de atención médica le recete, el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva puede durar tres meses, cuatro meses o más.
Los proveedores de atención médica considerarán la edad, el peso y otros factores del niño o la niña al recetar el tratamiento.
Personas con el VIH Las personas con el VIH que también tienen tuberculosis inactiva pueden ser tratadas.
Si tiene el VIH y tuberculosis inactiva, es muy importante que complete el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva a fin de prevenir que se presente la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Infórmele a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene el VIH.
Su proveedor de atención médica se asegurará de que sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis no interfieran con los medicamentos para el VIH.
Mujeres embarazadas En la mayoría de los casos, las mujeres que son diagnosticadas con tuberculosis inactiva durante el embarazo pueden posponer el tratamiento hasta dos o tres meses después del parto.
Si tiene un alto riesgo de presentar la enfermedad de tuberculosis una vez infectada, su proveedor de atención médica podría recomendar iniciar el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva de inmediato.
Su proveedor elegirá medicamentos para la tuberculosis que se recomiendan para su uso durante el embarazo y la monitoreará a usted y a su bebé durante el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Cómo completar el tratamiento Si a usted le diagnostican tuberculosis inactiva, hay varias opciones de tratamientos cortos y convenientes que pueden ayudar a protegerlo para que no se enferme de tuberculosis activa.
Su proveedor de atención médica trabajará con usted para asegurarse de que pueda completar su tratamiento.
Usted puede tomar sus medicamentos a través del tratamiento de observación directa (TOD), por su cuenta o mediante una combinación de ambos.
Si toma los medicamentos para la tuberculosis por su cuenta Si toma los medicamentos para la tuberculosis por su cuenta, aquí hay algunos consejos para ayudarlo a recordar tomarlos: Tome las pastillas todos los días a la misma hora, por ejemplo, antes del desayuno, durante un descanso que tome regularmente o después de lavarse los dientes.
Ponga una alarma para la hora en que debe tomar los medicamentos.
Escríbase una nota que le recuerde tomar los medicamentos.
Póngala en un lugar donde pueda verla, como en el espejo del baño o la puerta del refrigerador.
Pídale a un familiar o amigo que le recuerde tomar sus pastillas.
Marque cada día en un calendario a medida que tome sus medicamentos.
Ponga sus dosis en un pastillero semanal y manténgalo junto a la cama o llévelo en su bolso o en un bolsillo.
Use un registro de medicamentos para organizar y manejar las pastillas que toma.
Los CDC tienen disponibles registros de medicamentos que se pueden imprimir para personas que están en tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva: 3HP: Registro de medicación para el esquema de tres meses de isoniacida (H) más rifapentina (P) una vez a la semana 4R: Registro de medicación para el esquema de cuatro meses de rifampina (rifampicina) (R) diaria 3HR: Registro de medicación para el esquema de tres meses de isoniacida (H) más rifampina (rifampicina) (R) diarias NOTA: Recuerde mantener todos los medicamentos fuera del alcance de los niños.
Si un día se olvida de tomar las pastillas, sáltese esa dosis y tome la dosis siguiente.
Dígale a su proveedor de atención médica si se saltó alguna dosis.
También puede llamarlo para que le dé instrucciones.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
El tratamiento de observación directa (TOD) es la mejor manera de recordar que tiene que tomar sus medicamentos contra la tuberculosis.
A través del TOD, se reunirá con un trabajador de la salud todos los días o varias veces a la semana.
Estas reuniones pueden ser presenciales o virtuales (a través de un smartphone, una tableta o una computadora).
El trabajador de la salud lo observará mientras toma los medicamentos y se asegurará de que estos estén funcionando del modo esperado.
Su proveedor de atención médica monitoreará su tratamiento.
Su proveedor de atención médica se reunirá con usted al menos una vez al mes para ver si usted: Está tomando los medicamentos según las indicaciones.
Presenta algún signo o síntoma de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Presenta efectos secundarios de los medicamentos.
Su proveedor podría hacerle preguntas sobre cómo se siente al tomar los medicamentos.
También lo ayudará a asegurarse de que los medicamentos para la tuberculosis estén funcionando correctamente y ver cómo su cuerpo está manejando el medicamento.
Lleve un registro de su tratamiento.
Incluso después de terminar de tomar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis inactiva, aún podría tener un resultado positivo en futuras pruebas de sangre o pruebas cutáneas de la tuberculina.
Pídale a su proveedor de atención médica un registro por escrito que indique que ha completado el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Esto le servirá si se le pide que se haga otra prueba en el futuro.
La mayoría de las personas sanas no necesitarán ser tratadas nuevamente por la tuberculosis inactiva.
Sin embargo, el tratamiento que completó solo mata los microbios que tiene actualmente en el cuerpo.
Si está cerca de alguien con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, existe la posibilidad de que pueda tener nuevos microbios en el cuerpo.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Cómo obtener apoyo Es muy importante tomar y completar todos los medicamentos para la tuberculosis exactamente como lo indicó su proveedor de atención médica.
Hable con su proveedor de atención médica si tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Infórmele a su proveedor de atención médica si: Tiene efectos secundarios por los medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Necesita ayuda para tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Esto incluye alimentos, agua limpia o transporte.
Si necesita asistencia o apoyo adicionales para completar el tratamiento para la tuberculosis Hable con su proveedor de atención médica.
Su proveedor de atención médica podría compartir recursos con usted.
El programa estatal o local de control de la tuberculosis (enlace en inglés) podría proporcionar apoyo o tener recursos que lo ayuden.
¿Sabía usted?
Los planes de atención médica públicos y privados pueden cubrir los costos del tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Pídales apoyo a sus familiares o amigos.
Si necesita apoyo mientras completa el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva, pida ayuda a su familia o amigos.
Un miembro de la familia o un amigo pueden ayudarlo a recordar tomar sus medicamentos para la tuberculosis.
Puede ser difícil tomar medicamentos durante varios meses.
Un familiar o amigo pueden ofrecer apoyo emocional.
Comuníquese con otros sobrevivientes de tuberculosis.
We are TB (enlace en inglés) y Somos TB (para los hispanohablantes) es una comunidad de sobrevivientes de tuberculosis, personas que reciben tratamiento para la tuberculosis y sus familiares, que están comprometidos con la meta común de eliminar la tuberculosis.
El grupo proporciona apoyo mutuo integral a los pacientes actuales y a los centros médicos de tuberculosis.
Puede obtener información sobre las experiencias de personas que han sido diagnosticadas y tratadas por la tuberculosis inactiva en la página web de los CDC Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis.
Recursos Folleto Seguir el tratamiento con los medicamentos para la tuberculosis Descargar Documento "Preguntas y respuestas sobre la tuberculosis" Descargar EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general sobre el tratamiento Opciones de tratamiento Cómo completar el tratamiento Cómo obtener apoyo Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa La enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica VER TODO Tuberculosis Cómo tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone APRIL 17, 2025 ESPAÑOL Treating Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis Disease KEY POINTS Drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) disease means that the medicine can no longer kill the TB germs.
Treating and curing drug-resistant TB disease is complicated.
People with drug-resistant TB disease must be treated with special medicines.
Treatment overview There are different types of drug-resistant TB disease, depending on which medicines the TB germs are resistant to.
People with drug-resistant TB disease must be treated with medicines that can kill the TB germs.
If you have drug-resistant TB disease, your health care provider will recommend a treatment plan for your specific type of drug-resistant TB disease.
A treatment plan (also called treatment regimen) for drug-resistant TB disease is a schedule to take TB medicines to kill all the TB germs.
Your treatment plan for drug-resistant TB disease will include: The types of TB medicines to take, How much TB medicine to take, How often to take the TB medicines, How long to take the medicines, How to monitor yourself for any side effects of your TB medicine, and The health care provider(s) who will support you through the treatment process.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: Treatment for Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis Disease Treatment options It is complicated to treat and cure drug-resistant TB disease.
If you have drug-resistant TB disease, you must be treated with special medicines that are strong enough to kill the TB germs.
Treatment may take a long time, sometimes months or years and the medicines can cause side effects.
The different treatment plans for drug-resistant TB disease depend on which medicines the TB germs are resistant to.
A TB medical expert can help to prescribe the best medicines to treat drug-resistant TB disease, and closely monitor your treatment to make sure the medicines are working.
Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) If you have drug-resistant TB disease, you will meet in person with a health care provider to take your medicines.
This is called directly observed therapy (DOT).
DOT is a way to help you complete treatment for TB disease.
Through DOT, you will meet with a health care worker every day or several times a week.
These meetings may be in-person or virtual (through a smartphone, tablet, or computer).
The health care worker will watch you take your TB medicines and make sure that the TB medicines are working as they should.
KEEP READING: Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023 Side effects The medicines to treat drug-resistant TB disease are different from those used to treat inactive TB, also known as latent TB infection, and active TB disease.
They may cause different side effects than the other kinds of medicine.
Talk to your health care provider about the potential side effects of the medicines you are taking for drug-resistant TB disease.
Completing treatment Your health care provider will help you complete treatment for drug-resistant TB disease.
Take all TB medicines exactly as prescribed.
Do not miss any doses and do not stop treatment early.
It can be very dangerous to stop taking your medicines or not to take all your medicines regularly.
Your health care provider will monitor your treatment.
Your health care provider needs to see how you are doing.
Keep all your clinic appointments while you are being treated.
Your health care provider will ask you about side effects and perform tests to see how the medicines are working.
Depending on your treatment plan, your health care provider may ask for blood, sputum (phlegm), or urine tests while you are on treatment.
These tests help show if the TB medicines are working the right way and how your body is handling the medicine.
You may also get additional chest x-rays.
Keep a record of your treatment.
Even after you finish taking all of your medicine for drug-resistant TB disease, you may still have a positive test result on future TB blood tests or TB skin tests.
Ask your health care provider for a written record that you have finished treatment for drug-resistant TB disease.
This will be helpful if you are asked to have another TB test in the future.
Most healthy people will not need to be treated for drug-resistant TB disease ever again.
However, the treatment you completed only kills the TB germs in your body now.
If you are around someone with active TB disease, there is a chance that you can get new TB germs in your body.
Getting support It is very important to take and finish all TB medicines exactly as prescribed by your health care provider.
Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns about treatment for drug-resistant TB disease.
Tell your health care provider if you: Have side effects from the TB medicine.
Need help taking your TB medicine.
This includes food, clean water, or transportation.
If you need additional assistance or support in completing treatment for drug-resistant TB disease Talk to your health care provider.
The state or local TB program may be able to provide support or have resources to help you.
Ask your family or friends for support.
If you need support while completing treatment for drug-resistant TB disease, ask your family or friends.
A family member or friend can help you to remember to take your TB medicines.
It can be hard taking TB medicine for so long.
family member or friend can provide emotional support and may be able to help you get resources such as food and groceries if you have to stay away from others while being treated for drug-resistant TB disease.
Connect with other TB survivors.
We are TB , and Somos TB for Spanish-speakers, is a community of TB survivors, people being treated for TB, and their family members, committed to the common goal of eliminating TB.
The group provides comprehensive peer support for current TB patients and TB clinics.
You can learn about people's experiences of being diagnosed and treated for drug-resistant TB disease through CDC's Tuberculosis Personal Stories.
Resources Staying on Track with Tuberculosis Medicine Booklet Download What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Download Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download ON THIS PAGE Treatment overview Treatment options Completing treatment Getting support Resources RELATED PAGES Treatment Inactive Tuberculosis Active Tuberculosis Disease Prevention Talking with Your Health Care Provider VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) Talking with Your Health Care Provider SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 11 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) La tuberculosis en los niños PUNTOS CLAVE Hay consideraciones especiales para el diagnóstico y tratamiento de la tuberculosis inactiva (también conocida como infección de tuberculosis latente) y la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en los niños.
Una vez infectados con los microbios de la tuberculosis, los niños, especialmente aquellos menores de 5 años, tienen más probabilidades de enfermarse con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Información general La tuberculosis es una enfermedad causada por la bacteria o microbio Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Por lo general, la tuberculosis afecta los pulmones.
La tuberculosis también puede afectar otras partes del cuerpo, como el cerebro, los riñones o la columna vertebral.
La tuberculosis también puede afectar varias partes del cuerpo al mismo tiempo.
Por ejemplo, puede afectar los pulmones y los ganglios linfáticos.
No todas las personas infectadas con microbios de tuberculosis se enferman.
Como resultado, existen dos condiciones médicas relacionadas con la tuberculosis: tuberculosis inactiva (o infección de tuberculosis latente) y enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Tuberculosis inactiva Los microbios de la tuberculosis pueden vivir en el cuerpo sin enfermarlo.
Esto se llama tuberculosis inactiva o infección de tuberculosis latente.
Los niños con tuberculosis inactiva están infectados con los microbios de la tuberculosis, pero no tienen la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
No se sienten enfermos, no tienen síntomas de enfermedad de tuberculosis y no pueden propagar la enfermedad a otras personas.
Los niños diagnosticados con tuberculosis inactiva pueden tomar medicamentos para prevenir la aparición de la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Acerca de la tuberculosis inactiva Enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Los microbios de la tuberculosis se activan si el sistema inmunitario no puede evitar que se multipliquen.
Cuando los microbios de la tuberculosis están activos (multiplicándose en su cuerpo), esto se conoce como enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Los niños con tuberculosis activa se sienten enfermos.
También pueden transmitir los microbios a las personas con las que pasan tiempo todos los días.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Acerca de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Una vez infectados con los microbios de la tuberculosis, los niños, especialmente aquellos menores de 5 años, tienen más probabilidades de enfermarse con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa y de enfermarse más rápidamente que los adultos.
Los bebés y niños pequeños tienen más probabilidades que los niños mayores y los adultos de presentar formas graves de la enfermedad de tuberculosis, como la enfermedad de tuberculosis en el cerebro (meningitis tuberculosa) o la enfermedad de tuberculosis miliar (enfermedad de tuberculosis en múltiples partes del cuerpo).
Sin tratamiento, la enfermedad de tuberculosis puede ser mortal.
Los niños diagnosticados con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa tienen que tomar medicamentos para tratar la enfermedad.
Síntomas Los síntomas de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en niños incluyen: Tos Sensación de malestar o debilidad, aletargamiento o menos ganas de jugar Pérdida de peso o retraso del desarrollo Fiebre Sudores nocturnos El tipo más común de la enfermedad de tuberculosis se produce en los pulmones, pero esta enfermedad puede también afectar otras partes del cuerpo.
Los síntomas de la enfermedad en otras partes del cuerpo dependen del área afectada.
Por ejemplo, la enfermedad de tuberculosis en el cerebro (también conocida como meningitis tuberculosa) puede causar síntomas como somnolencia, dolor de cabeza, irritabilidad y convulsiones.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo Cualquier persona puede contraer tuberculosis.
Debido a su edad, los bebés y los niños pequeños con tuberculosis inactiva han sido infectados recientemente con microbios de la tuberculosis y tienen un mayor riesgo de presentar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Los niños también tienen mayor riesgo de contraer la tuberculosis si: Viven con familiares u otros adultos que tienen factores de riesgo relacionados con la tuberculosis.
Nacieron en un país donde la tuberculosis es común o viajan con frecuencia a uno de esos países, incluidos algunos de Asia, África y América Latina.
Viven o han vivido en lugares con mucha gente donde la tuberculosis es más común, como refugios para personas sin hogar, prisiones o cárceles.
Recientemente pasaron tiempo con una persona que tiene la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Tienen el sistema inmunitario debilitado debido a ciertos medicamentos o condiciones médicas, como diabetes, cáncer o la infección por el VIH.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo se propaga La tuberculosis se propaga de persona a persona a través del aire.
Los microbios de la tuberculosis llegan al aire cuando una persona con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa de pulmón o garganta tose, habla o canta.
Estos microbios pueden permanecer en el aire por varias horas, según el entorno.
Es más probable que los microbios de la tuberculosis se propaguen en áreas interiores u otros lugares con una mala circulación del aire (como un vehículo cerrado) que en exteriores.
Los niños que inhalan el aire contaminado se infectan con tuberculosis.
Los niños pequeños tienen menos probabilidad de transmitir microbios de la tuberculosis a otras personas.
Los proveedores de atención médica y los trabajadores de salud pública ayudarán a determinar si alguien que ha estado en contacto con un niño con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa debe hacerse una prueba de detección.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Prevención Los niños diagnosticados con tuberculosis inactiva pueden tomar medicamentos que pueden ayudar a prevenir que presenten la enfermedad.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Datos breves En el 2023 (enlace en inglés), hubo 466 casos de enfermedad de tuberculosis (4.8 % de todos los casos de tuberculosis en los EE.
UU.) entre los niños de 14 años o menores en los Estados Unidos.
Pruebas y diagnóstico Todos los niños con un resultado positivo en la prueba de infección por tuberculosis (prueba de sangre de tuberculosis o prueba cutánea de la tuberculina), con síntomas de la enfermedad o que han pasado tiempo con una persona con enfermedad de tuberculosis activa deben recibir una evaluación médica para la enfermedad.
Una evaluación médica para la enfermedad de tuberculosis incluye: Antecedentes médicos Examen físico Pruebas para detectar la infección de tuberculosis (prueba de sangre o prueba cutánea de la tuberculina) Radiografía de tórax Pruebas de laboratorio para detectar la presencia de microbios de la tuberculosis (análisis y cultivo de esputo o flema) Pruebas de laboratorio para detectar resistencia a los medicamentos Pruebas para detectar la infección de tuberculosis Hay dos tipos de pruebas para detectar la infección de tuberculosis: la prueba de sangre de tuberculosis y la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina.
Las directrices de los CDC (enlace en inglés) actuales recomiendan la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina como el método de prueba en niños menores de 5 años, aunque señalan que algunos expertos usan pruebas de sangre en los niños más pequeños.
Los proveedores de atención médica pueden optar por consultar la orientación de la Academia Estadounidense de Pediatría (AAP, por sus siglas en inglés) (enlace en inglés) sobre el uso de pruebas de sangre de tuberculosis en niños.
Prueba de sangre de tuberculosis Las pruebas de sangre de tuberculosis (también llamadas pruebas de liberación de interferón gamma o IGRA, por sus siglas en inglés) usan una muestra de sangre para detectar si una persona está infectada con los microbios de la tuberculosis.
Las pruebas miden cómo reacciona el sistema inmunitario cuando una pequeña cantidad de sangre se mezcla con las proteínas de la tuberculosis.
Si un niño tiene 5 años o más y alguna vez ha recibido una vacuna contra la tuberculosis, su proveedor de atención médica debería recomendar la prueba de sangre.
A diferencia de la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina, las pruebas de sangre no se ven afectadas por la vacuna contra la tuberculosis (la vacuna BCG).
Prueba cutánea de la tuberculina En la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina, un proveedor de atención médica usa una aguja pequeña para poner algo de material de análisis debajo de la piel.
El niño deberá volver a su proveedor de atención médica en 2 o 3 días para ver si hay una reacción.
Cómo entender los resultados de la prueba para detectar la infección de tuberculosis Un resultado positivo a la prueba de infección por tuberculosis significa que un niño tiene microbios de la tuberculosis en el cuerpo.
Un proveedor de atención médica hará otras pruebas para determinar si un niño tiene tuberculosis inactiva o la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Estas pruebas podrían incluir una radiografía de tórax y un análisis del esputo (flema) que el niño expulsa al toser.
Un resultado negativo a la prueba de infección por tuberculosis significa que es poco probable que tenga tuberculosis inactiva o enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, pero un proveedor de atención médica podría hacer más pruebas, especialmente si el niño: Tiene síntomas de enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, como tos, dolor de pecho, fiebre, pérdida de peso o cansancio.
Tiene el VIH.
Estuvo expuesto recientemente a los microbios de la tuberculosis.
Un resultado negativo en la prueba de infección por tuberculosis no excluye la infección, y si existe la posibilidad de enfermedad de tuberculosis, los proveedores de atención médica deben hacer una evaluación médica para la enfermedad.
Radiografía de tórax Los proveedores de atención médica pueden usar una radiografía de tórax para buscar signos de enfermedad de tuberculosis en los pulmones del niño.
Pruebas de laboratorio Puede que un proveedor de atención médica le tome muestras al niño.
Una muestra común es una muestra de esputo (flema) para probar la presencia de tuberculosis en los pulmones.
Los niños podrían ser incapaces de escupir esputo.
Un proveedor de atención médica podría insertar un tubo en la boca o la nariz y hasta el estómago para obtener esputo para la prueba.
Este procedimiento se llama aspiración gástrica.
Los proveedores de atención médica también podrían recolectar una muestra de orina, tomar muestras de tejido o hacer otras pruebas.
Estas pruebas pueden encontrar bacterias de tuberculosis que podrían estar fuera de los pulmones.
El laboratorio hará pruebas, como un frotis y un cultivo, para ver si hay microbios de tuberculosis en la muestra.
Si el laboratorio encuentra microbios de tuberculosis en la muestra, también hará pruebas para ver qué medicamentos contra la tuberculosis pueden matar las bacterias encontradas.
Diagnóstico Tuberculosis inactiva Si un niño tiene un resultado positivo en la prueba de sangre de tuberculosis o en la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina, pero su proveedor de atención médica no encontró evidencia de enfermedad después de una evaluación médica, tal vez le diagnostiquen tuberculosis inactiva.
Los proveedores de atención médica deben asegurarse de que el niño no tenga la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa antes de comenzar el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva.
Enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Confirmar el diagnóstico de enfermedad de tuberculosis en los niños con una prueba de laboratorio puede ser difícil ya que: es difícil recoger muestras de esputo (flema) de bebés y niños pequeños; y los niños tienen una mayor probabilidad de presentar la enfermedad de tuberculosis causada por una cantidad menor de microbios de tuberculosis en los pulmones.
Esto significa que las pruebas de laboratorio usadas para detectar microbios de la tuberculosis en el esputo tienen menos probabilidades de dar un resultado positivo.
Algunos niños son diagnosticados con la enfermedad de tuberculosis incluso cuando el laboratorio no confirma la presencia de microbios, pero otros factores indican la enfermedad: Síntomas de la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
Un resultado positivo en la prueba de la tuberculosis o en la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina.
Una radiografía de tórax anormal.
Tiempo pasado con una persona con enfermedad de tuberculosis contagiosa.
Tratamiento y recuperación Hay varios tratamientos disponibles, y los proveedores de atención médica considerarán la edad, el peso y otros factores del niño o la niña al recetar el tratamiento.
Tratamiento de la tuberculosis inactiva en niños Se recomienda el tratamiento en los niños con tuberculosis inactiva para prevenir que la infección se convierta en la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
Según el esquema de tratamiento para la tuberculosis que un proveedor de atención médica le recete, el tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva puede durar tres meses, cuatro meses o más.
Tratamiento de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en niños Los niños con esta enfermedad deberán tomar varios medicamentos distintos para la tuberculosis.
La razón es que hay muchos microbios para matar.
Usar varios medicamentos a la vez es más eficaz para matar a todos los microbios de la tuberculosis y prevenir que se hagan resistentes a los medicamentos.
Según el esquema de tratamiento para la tuberculosis que un proveedor de atención médica le recete, el tratamiento para la enfermedad puede durar cuatro meses, seis meses o más.
Importancia de completar el tratamiento Es muy importante que los niños o cualquier persona que esté recibiendo tratamiento para la tuberculosis inactiva o la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa terminen de tomar los medicamentos y los tomen exactamente según las indicaciones.
Si un niño deja de tomar los medicamentos antes de completar el tratamiento, puede volver a enfermarse.
Si los medicamentos no se toman correctamente, los microbios de la tuberculosis que sigan vivos podrían volverse resistentes a esos medicamentos.
La tuberculosis que sea resistente a los medicamentos es más difícil y costosa de tratar, y el tratamiento puede llevar mucho tiempo.
Tratamiento de observación directa (TOD) La mejor manera de tomar medicamentos para la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa (y en algunos casos, la tuberculosis inactiva) es mediante el tratamiento de observación directa (TOD).
A través de este tratamiento, un trabajador de la salud visitará al niño todos los días o varias veces a la semana.
Estas visitas pueden ser presenciales o virtuales (a través de un smartphone, una tableta o una computadora).
El trabajador de la salud observará al niño mientras toma los medicamentos y se asegurará de que estos estén funcionando del modo esperado.
Vacunas La BCG o bacilo de Calmette-Guérin es una vacuna contra la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
La vacuna no se usa generalmente en los Estados Unidos.
Se administra a los bebés y niños pequeños en los países donde la tuberculosis es común.
Protege a los niños contra las formas graves de la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa, como la meningitis tuberculosa (enfermedad de tuberculosis en el cerebro).
La vacuna puede dar un resultado falso positivo en la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina.
Se prefieren las pruebas de sangre para los niños de 5 años o más que hayan recibido la vacuna BCG contra la tuberculosis.
Informe al proveedor de atención médica de su hijo si este ha recibido esta vacuna.
Recursos Hoja informativa Lo que debe saber sobre la tuberculosis Descargar Documento "Preguntas y respuestas sobre la tuberculosis" Descargar Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Síntomas Factores de riesgo Cómo se propaga Prevención Datos breves Pruebas y diagnóstico Tratamiento y recuperación Vacunas Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Acerca de la tuberculosis Acerca de la tuberculosis inactiva Acerca de la enfermedad tuberculosis activa Acerca de la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos El embarazo La tuberculosis bovina en los seres humanos VER TODO Tuberculosis El embarazo FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 14 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Registro de medicación para el esquema de 3HR PUNTOS CLAVE Los proveedores de atención médica pueden usar esta herramienta de registro de medicación con pacientes a quienes se les recete el esquema de 3 meses de isoniacida más rifampina (rifampicina) diarias (3HR) para tratar la infección de tuberculosis latente (tuberculosis inactiva).
Los pacientes pueden mantener un registro del calendario de tratamiento, la toma de medicamentos y la información de contacto del médico o centro médico.
Use la lista de verificación para identificar los signos y síntomas que se podrían presentar mientras se usa el esquema de 3HR.
Formato: PDF Dimensiones: 8.5 x 11 in Cantidad de páginas: 2 Idioma: Español Tamaño: 273 KB Ver Idiomas adicionales English (US) Descargar Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 14 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Registro de medicación para el esquema de 4R PUNTOS CLAVE Los proveedores de atención médica pueden usar esta lista de verificación con pacientes a quienes se les recete el esquema de 4 meses de rifampina (rifampicina) diaria, también conocido como 4R, para tratar la infección de tuberculosis latente (tuberculosis inactiva).
Los pacientes pueden mantener un registro del calendario de tratamiento, la toma de medicamentos y la información de contacto del médico o centro médico.
Use la lista de verificación para identificar los signos y síntomas que podrían presentarse mientras se usa el esquema de 4R.
Formato: PDF Dimensiones: 8.5 x 11 in Cantidad de páginas: 2 Idioma: Español Tamaño: 310 KB Ver Idiomas adicionales English (US) Descargar Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 14 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Registro de medicación del esquema de 3HP PUNTOS CLAVE Los proveedores de atención médica pueden usar esta lista de verificación con los pacientes a los que les recetan el esquema de 12 dosis, también conocido como 3HP, para tratar la infección de tuberculosis latente (tuberculosis inactiva).
Los pacientes pueden hacer seguimiento de los calendarios de tratamiento, la toma de los medicamentos y la información de contacto del médico o centro médico.
La lista de verificación incluye información sobre los signos y síntomas que podrían presentarse mientras se usa el esquema de 12 dosis.
Formato: PDF Dimensiones: 8.5 x 11 in Cantidad de páginas: 2 Idioma: Español Tamaño: 353 KB Ver Idiomas adicionales Chinese Descargar Creole Descargar English (US) Descargar Marshallese Descargar Tagalog Descargar Vietnamese Descargar Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone APRIL 17, 2025 ESPAÑOL Talking with Your Health Care Provider about Tuberculosis KEY POINTS Contact your health care provider if you think you have been exposed to someone with active TB disease, especially if you have symptoms.
Talk to your health care provider about your TB risk, testing, and treatment options.
Why it's important Starting a conversation with your health care provider is the first step to protecting your family, friends, and community from TB.
TB germs can live in your body for years without making you sick.
This is called inactive TB or latent TB infection.
People with inactive TB are infected with TB germs but they do not feel sick, do not have symptoms of TB disease, and cannot spread TB to others.
Without treatment, inactive TB can become active TB disease at any time and make you sick.
Once inactive TB becomes active TB disease, TB can spread from person to person through the air.
It's important to talk to your health care provider or contact your health department if you think you have been exposed to someone with active TB disease, especially if you have symptoms.
TB disease can be treated.
Even if you do not feel sick, it's important to talk to your health care provider if you have risk factors for TB.
People with inactive TB can be treated to prevent active TB disease.
Topics to discuss Discuss your risk There are several risk factors for TB so it’s important to talk with your health care provider about your risk.
Anyone can get TB, but you have a higher risk for TB if you: Recently spent time with someone who has active TB disease; Were born in or frequently travel to countries where TB is common, including some countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America; Live or used to live in large group settings where TB is more common, such as homeless shelters, prisons, or jails; Work in places where TB is more likely to spread, such as hospitals, homeless shelters, correctional facilities, and nursing homes; or Have a weaker immune system because of certain medications or health conditions such as diabetes, cancer, or HIV.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Risk Factors Understand the TB testing process There are two types of tests for TB infection.
Talk with your health care provider about which TB test is best for you.
TB blood test The TB blood test is also called an interferon-gamma release assay or IGRA.
The TB blood test measures how your immune system reacts to the germs that cause TB.
If you have ever received a vaccine for TB, your health care provider will recommend the TB blood test.
Unlike the TB skin test, TB blood tests are not affected by the TB vaccine (BCG vaccine).
TB skin test For the TB skin test, a health care provider uses a small needle to put some testing material under the skin.
You will need to return to your health care provider in 2-3 days to see if there is a reaction.
KEEP READING: Testing for Tuberculosis Discuss your TB blood test or TB skin test results If your TB blood test or TB skin test is positive, it means you have TB germs in your body.
Your health care provider will do other tests to determine if you have inactive TB or active TB disease.
These tests may include a chest x-ray, and a test of the sputum (phlegm) you cough up.
Discuss treatment options If you are diagnosed with inactive TB If you are diagnosed with inactive TB, there are several short and convenient treatment options available that can help protect you from getting sick with active TB disease.
If you are diagnosed with active TB disease If you have active TB disease, you can be treated with medicine.
You will need to take and finish all of your TB medicine as directed by your health care provider.
This is to help you feel better and prevent other people from getting sick.
Talk to your health care provider about any problems that you have with your TB medicine.
Questions to ask your health care provider about your TB treatment Based on my lifestyle and personal health history, what treatment option do you recommend?
How often do I need to take this medicine?
And how long will I be on it?
What are the instructions for taking this medicine?
What are the side effects?
What is the cost of the medicine?
Will my insurance cover treatment?
Are there any resources that can support me in my treatment plan?
KEEP READING: Treating Tuberculosis Questions you may receive Expand All Do you have any symptoms of active TB disease?
When do you think you were exposed to active TB disease?
Where were you born?
Do you frequently travel to other countries?
Have you lived or worked in places where TB is more likely to spread?
What medications are you taking and what other health conditions do you have?
Have you ever had a positive TB blood test or skin test before?
Have you received the TB vaccine (also known as bacille Calmette-Guérin or BCG vaccine)?
Resources to share Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Download Think.
Treat TB ON THIS PAGE Why it's important Topics to discuss Questions you may receive Resources to share RELATED PAGES Prevention Treatment Health Disparities General Public Communication and Education Resources Ordering Information VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) Health Disparities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos Acerca de la tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis Tuberculosis: causas y cómo se propaga Vacuna contra la tuberculosis Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Exposición a la tuberculosis Factores de riesgo de la tuberculosis Cómo prevenir la tuberculosis Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo hablar con su proveedor de atención médica Disparidades en la salud con respecto a la tuberculosis Recursos de comunicación y educación para el público general Historias personales sobre la tuberculosis VER TODO Temas relacionados: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs Ver todo Para todos 11 DE FEBRERO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Acerca de la tuberculosis bovina en los seres humanos PUNTOS CLAVE En los Estados Unidos, la mayoría de los casos de enfermedad por tuberculosis en personas son causados por microbios llamados Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La Mycobacterium bovis (M.
bovis) es otro tipo de microbio que causa la enfermedad de la tuberculosis en las personas.
bovis se encuentra con mayor frecuencia en el ganado y en animales como bisontes, alces y ciervos.
Información general La M.
bovis se encuentra con mayor frecuencia en el ganado y otros animales como bisontes, alces y ciervos.
En las personas, la M.
bovis causa la enfermedad de tuberculosis que puede afectar los pulmones, los ganglios linfáticos y otras partes del cuerpo.
Sin embargo, al igual que con la Mycobacterium tuberculosis, no todas las personas infectadas por M.
bovis se enferman.
Tuberculosis inactiva Los microbios de la tuberculosis pueden vivir en el cuerpo sin enfermarlo.
A esto se le llama tuberculosis inactiva o infección de tuberculosis latente.
Las personas con tuberculosis inactiva están infectadas con los microbios, pero no tienen la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
No se sienten enfermas, no tienen síntomas de enfermedad de tuberculosis activa y no pueden propagar la tuberculosis a otras personas.
Si no reciben tratamiento, las personas con tuberculosis inactiva pueden presentar enfermedad de tuberculosis activa en cualquier momento y enfermarse.
Enfermedad de tuberculosis activa Los microbios de la tuberculosis se activan si el sistema inmunitario no puede evitar que se multipliquen.
Cuando los microbios de la tuberculosis están activos (multiplicándose en su cuerpo), esto se conoce como enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Las personas con la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa se sienten enfermas.
También pueden transmitir los microbios a las personas con las que pasan tiempo todos los días.
Sin tratamiento, la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa puede ser mortal.
Síntomas Los síntomas de la enfermedad de la tuberculosis causada por M.
bovis son similares a los síntomas de la enfermedad de la tuberculosis causada por M.
tuberculosis.
Los síntomas pueden incluir: tos, fiebre, sudores nocturnos, y pérdida de peso.
Otros síntomas pueden presentarse según la parte del cuerpo que esté afectada por la enfermedad.
Riesgos de exposición Productos lácteos no pasteurizados Las personas suelen infectarse por M.
bovis al comer o beber productos lácteos contaminados y no pasteurizados.
El proceso de pasteurización destruye los organismos en la leche que causan enfermedades al calentar rápidamente y luego enfriar la leche.
Este proceso elimina la M.
bovis de los productos lácteos.
Bisontes o cérvidos silvestres (ciervos, alces u otros animales similares) La infección también puede ocurrir por contacto directo con una herida, como podría suceder durante la matanza o la caza, o al inhalar las bacterias presentes en el aire exhalado por animales infectados por M.
Las personas en riesgo de entrar en contacto con líquidos corporales o tejidos de un bisonte o cérvido silvestres (por ejemplo, ciervos o alces) a través de una herida, como los cazadores, deberían buscar atención médica de inmediato e informar a sus proveedores de atención médica sobre la exposición a un animal silvestre que podría portar M.
Ganado Las personas que pasan periodos prolongados en contacto cercano con el ganado u otros animales que podrían portar M.
bovis, como los trabajadores de granjas lecheras, deberían buscar atención médica de inmediato si presentan síntomas de la enfermedad de tuberculosis e informar a sus proveedores de atención médica que trabajan en contacto cercano con animales.
Personas con enfermedad de tuberculosis causada por M.
bovis La M.
bovis puede transmitirse directamente de persona a persona a través del aire cuando las personas con la enfermedad en sus pulmones tosen, hablan o cantan.
Personas en riesgo La mayoría de las personas tienen un riesgo muy bajo de infectarse por M.
Las personas que podrían tener un mayor riesgo de infección por M.
bovis deben hablar con sus proveedores de atención médica sobre si deberían hacerse pruebas regularmente para detectar la infección por tuberculosis con una prueba de sangre o prueba cutánea de la tuberculina.
Las personas que están en mayor riesgo incluyen: Las personas que trabajan con lo siguiente: Ganado, bisontes o cérvidos (p.
ej., ciervos o alces).
Productos derivados de estos animales como cuero, leche o carne.
Las personas en ocupaciones o pasatiempos que pueden tener un mayor riesgo, como las siguientes: Ganadería.
Granjas lecheras.
Trabajar en un matadero o como carnicero.
Cómo reducir el riesgo No consuma productos lácteos no pasteurizados.
Revise la etiqueta y los ingredientes de los productos lácteos para asegurarse de que la palabra "pasteurizado" esté mencionada.
Tenga cuidado al comprar productos lácteos caseros, como quesos o productos que se venden sin un listado completo de los ingredientes.
Busque atención médica si cree que ha estado expuesto a M.
bovis, especialmente si presenta síntomas de la enfermedad de tuberculosis.
Datos breves La M.
bovis es responsable de menos del 2 % de la cantidad total de casos de enfermedad de tuberculosis en los Estados Unidos.
La transmisión de M.
bovis de ganado a personas alguna vez fue común en los Estados Unidos.
Gracias a más de un siglo de control de la enfermedad en el ganado y la pasteurización rutinaria de la leche de vaca, esto es mucho menos común.
Pruebas de detección Hay dos tipos de pruebas para detectar los microbios de la tuberculosis: Prueba de sangre de tuberculosis La prueba de sangre de la tuberculosis se llama también ensayo de liberación de interferón gamma o IGRA (por sus siglas en inglés).
La prueba de sangre de la tuberculosis mide cómo reacciona su sistema inmunitario ante los microbios que causan la tuberculosis.
Si usted ha recibido alguna vez una vacuna contra la tuberculosis, su proveedor de atención médica le recomendará la prueba de sangre.
A diferencia de las pruebas cutáneas de la tuberculina, las pruebas de sangre no se ven afectadas por la vacuna contra la tuberculosis (BCG).
Prueba cutánea de la tuberculina En la prueba cutánea de la tuberculina, un proveedor de atención médica usa una aguja pequeña para poner algo de material de análisis debajo de la piel.
Usted deberá volver a su proveedor de atención médica en 2 o 3 días para ver si hay una reacción.
Si el resultado de la prueba es positivo Usted tiene microbios de la tuberculosis en el cuerpo.
Su proveedor de atención médica le hará otras pruebas para determinar si tiene tuberculosis inactiva o la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Estas pruebas podrían incluir una radiografía de tórax y un análisis del esputo (flema) que expulsa al toser.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Pruebas para detectar la tuberculosis Tratamiento y recuperación La tuberculosis inactiva o la enfermedad de tuberculosis causada por M.
bovis se trata de manera similar a la causada por M.
tuberculosis.
De hecho, los proveedores de atención médica podrían no saber que la enfermedad de tuberculosis de una persona es causada por M.
bovis en lugar de M.
tuberculosis.
bovis generalmente es resistente a la pirazinamida, uno de los medicamentos usados para tratar la enfermedad de tuberculosis activa.
Sin embargo, la resistencia solo a la pirazinamida normalmente no causa problemas con el tratamiento para la enfermedad, porque esta se trata con una combinación de varios medicamentos distintos.
SEGUIR LEYENDO: Tratamiento de la tuberculosis Cómo se ven afectados los animales El Programa Cooperativo Estatal-Federal de Erradicación de la Tuberculosis, que incluye al Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, las agencias estatales de salud animal y los productores de ganado estadounidenses, ha eliminado casi por completo la infección por M.
bovis en el ganado del país.
Los inspectores examinan más de un millón de animales al año en busca de tuberculosis y han tomado medidas para erradicar la enfermedad.
Sin embargo, la M.
bovis se puede encontrar en animales silvestres, como bisontes, alces y ciervos.
El ganado no infectado que entre en contacto con estos animales silvestres puede infectarse.
El ganado y los productos derivados del ganado fuera de los Estados Unidos, particularmente en países en desarrollo, podrían no tener el mismo nivel de inspección de infección o contaminación por M.
bovis, respectivamente.
Tenga cuidado al consumir productos lácteos importados y asegúrese de que los productos hayan sido debidamente pasteurizados.
Recursos (en inglés) Programa de Erradicación de la Tuberculosis del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Síntomas Riesgos de exposición Personas en riesgo Cómo reducir el riesgo Datos breves Pruebas de detección Tratamiento y recuperación Cómo se ven afectados los animales Recursos (en inglés) PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Acerca de la tuberculosis Acerca de la tuberculosis inactiva Acerca de la enfermedad tuberculosis activa Acerca de la enfermedad de tuberculosis resistente a los medicamentos La tuberculosis en los niños El embarazo VER TODO Tuberculosis Signos y síntomas de la tuberculosis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Tuberculosis La tuberculosis es causada por una bacteria llamada Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
La bacteria generalmente afecta a los pulmones.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 ESPAÑOL Testing for Tuberculosis: Skin Test KEY POINTS A tuberculosis (TB) skin test can tell if you have TB germs in your body.
A TB skin test requires two visits with your health care provider.
The TB vaccine may cause a false-positive TB skin test reaction.
TB skin test The TB skin test is also known as the tuberculin skin test.
If you receive a TB skin test, you will have two visits with your health care provider.
First visit During the first visit, a health care provider uses a small needle to put some testing material under the skin on the lower part of your inner arm.
The testing fluid is called tuberculin.
Second visit After two or three days, you must return to the clinic to have the skin test read.
A trained health care provider will measure the size of the bump or reaction.
A positive or negative test result depends on the size of the bump or reaction.
If you cannot return after two or three days to have the test read, you will need to have a skin test again.
Who can get a TB skin test Most people can get a TB skin test.
This includes: Infants, Children, Pregnant women, People with HIV infection, and People who had a negative TB skin test or an undocumented TB skin test.
You should not get a TB skin test if you have had a severe reaction, such as a severe allergic reaction, in the past.
Talk to your health care provider about the TB blood test.
If you received the TB vaccine Tell your health care provider if you received a TB vaccine If you have ever received a vaccine for TB (BCG vaccine), your health care provider should recommend the TB blood test.
Unlike the TB skin test, TB blood tests are not affected by the TB vaccine.
Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is a vaccine for TB disease.
The vaccine is not generally used in the United States.
It is given to infants and small children in countries where TB is common.
It protects children from getting severe forms of active TB disease, such as TB meningitis.
Tell your health care provider if you have received the TB vaccine, especially if you are getting tested for TB infection because it can cause a false positive TB skin test reaction.
TB blood tests are the preferred tests for people who have received the BCG TB vaccine.
How to get tested You can get tested for TB at the health department or at your health care provider's office.
Your health care provider will choose the TB test that is best for you.
Public and private health care plans may cover TB testing costs.
Finding a test location Contact your state or local TB program about getting tested for TB.
TB Programs Two-step TB skin test Your health care provider may perform a two-step TB skin test if you are going to be screened for TB periodically (for example, if you are a health care worker).
Some people with inactive TB, also called latent TB infection, have a negative reaction to the TB skin test when tested years after being infected.
However, if they are tested again within a year of the first test, they may have a positive reaction.
The first TB skin test can "trigger the memory" of the immune system, boosting its ability to react to the second TB skin test.
It may appear that these people were infected between the first and second tests.
However, the second positive test reaction is actually a boosted reaction due to TB infection that occurred a long time ago.
The two-step TB skin test can lower the chance that a boosted reaction from an old TB infection will be misinterpreted as a recent infection.
If the reaction to the first-step TB skin test is classified as negative, a second-step TB skin test is given one to three weeks after the first test is read.
Understanding TB skin test results Positive TB skin test A positive skin test result for TB infection means you have TB germs in your body.
Keep a record of your positive test result Once you have a positive TB blood test or TB skin test result, you may still have a positive test result on future TB tests.
This includes even after you finish taking all of your TB medicine for inactive TB or active TB disease.
Ask your health care provider for a written record of your positive TB skin test result.
This will be helpful if you are asked to have another TB test in the future.
Negative TB skin test A negative skin test result for TB infection means inactive TB or active TB disease is unlikely, but your health care provider may do more tests, especially if: You have symptoms of active TB disease, like Coughing, Chest pain, Fever, Weight loss, or tiredness.
You have HIV.
You were recently exposed to TB germs.
After you get your results If you have a positive TB skin test result, you have TB germs in your body.
Your health care provider will do other tests to determine if you have inactive TB or active TB disease.
These tests may include a chest x-ray, and a test of the sputum (phlegm) you cough up.
Your health care provider will discuss your diagnosis with you and recommend treatment.
KEEP READING: Diagnosing Tuberculosis Resources What You Need to Know About the TB Skin Test Fact Sheet Download What You Need to Know About Tuberculosis Fact Sheet Download Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download ON THIS PAGE TB skin test Who can get a TB skin test How to get tested Understanding TB skin test results After you get your results Resources RELATED PAGES Testing for Tuberculosis Testing for Tuberculosis: Blood Test Diagnosis Vaccine Exposure VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) Diagnosis SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone MAY 20, 2024 ESPAÑOL About Bovine Tuberculosis in Humans KEY POINTS In the United States, most tuberculosis (TB) disease cases in people are caused by germs called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Mycobacterium bovis (M.
bovis) is another type of germ that causes TB disease in people.
bovis is most commonly found in cattle and animals such as bison, elk, and deer.
Overview M.
bovis is most commonly found in cattle and other animals such as bison, elk, and deer.
In people, M.
bovis causes TB disease that can affect the lungs, lymph nodes, and other parts of the body.
However, as with M.
tuberculosis, not everyone infected with M.
bovis becomes sick.
Inactive TB TB germs can live in the body without making you sick.
This is called inactive TB, or latent TB infection.
People with inactive TB are infected with TB germs, but they do not have active TB disease.
They do not feel sick, do not have any symptoms of active TB disease, and cannot spread TB to others.
Without treatment, people with inactive TB can develop active TB disease at any time and become sick.
Active TB Disease TB germs become active if the immune system can't stop them from growing.
When TB germs are active (multiplying in your body), this is called active TB disease.
People with active TB disease feel sick.
They may also be able to spread the germs to people they spend time with every day.
Without treatment, active TB disease can be fatal.
Symptoms Symptoms of TB disease caused by M.
bovis are similar to the symptoms of TB disease caused by M.
tuberculosis.
Symptoms can include: Cough, Fever, Night sweats, and Weight loss Other symptoms might occur depending on the part of the body affected by the disease.
Exposure risks Unpasteurized dairy products People are most commonly infected with M.
bovis by eating or drinking contaminated, unpasteurized dairy products.
The pasteurization process destroys disease-causing organisms in milk by rapidly heating and then cooling the milk.
This process eliminates M.
bovis from milk products.
Wild bison or cervid (deer, elk, or similar animals) Infection can also occur from direct contact with a wound, such as what might occur during slaughter or hunting, or by inhaling the bacteria in air exhaled by animals infected with M.
People at risk for contact with body fluids or tissue from a wild bison or cervid (for example, deer or elk) into a wound, such as hunters, should promptly seek medical attention and tell their health care providers about the exposure to a wild animal that might carry M.
Cattle People who spend extended periods in close contact with cattle or other animals that might carry M.
bovis, such as dairy workers, should promptly seek medical attention if they have symptoms of TB disease and tell their health care providers they work in close contact with animals.
People with TB disease caused by M.
bovis can be spread directly from person to person through the air when people with the disease in their lungs cough, speaks, or sings.
People at risk Most people are at very low risk for being infected with M.
People who might be at higher risk of M.
bovis infection should talk to their health care providers about whether they should be regularly tested for TB infection with a TB blood test or TB skin test.
People at higher risk include: People who work with Cattle, bison, or cervids (e.g., deer or elk), or Products from these animals such as hides, milk, or meat.
People in occupations or hobbies that may have increased risk, including Ranching, Dairy farming, Working in a slaughterhouse or as a butcher, or Hunting.
Reducing risk Do not consume unpasteurized dairy products.
Check the label and ingredients of dairy products to make sure the word "pasteurized" is listed.
Use caution when purchasing homemade dairy products such as cheeses or products that are sold without complete labeling of the ingredients.
Seek medical attention if you think you have been exposed to M.
bovis, especially if you have symptoms of TB disease.
Quick facts M.
bovis causes less than 2% of the total number of cases of TB disease in the United States.
bovis transmission from cattle to people was once common in the United States.
Thanks to over a century of disease control in cattle and routine pasteurization of cow's milk, this is much less common.
Testing There are two types of tests that can find TB germs: TB blood test The TB blood test is also called an interferon-gamma release assay or IGRA.
The TB blood test measures how your immune system reacts to the germs that cause TB.
If you have ever received a vaccine for TB, your health care provider will recommend the TB blood test.
Unlike the TB skin test, TB blood tests are not affected by the TB vaccine (BCG vaccine).
TB skin test For the TB skin test, a health care provider uses a small needle to put some testing material under the skin.
You will need to return to your health care provider in two to three days to see if there is a reaction.
If your TB blood test or skin test is positive You have TB germs in your body.
Your health care provider will do other tests to determine if you have inactive TB or active TB disease.
These tests may include a chest x-ray, and a test of the sputum (phlegm) you cough up.
KEEP READING: Testing for Tuberculosis Treatment and recovery Inactive TB or TB disease caused by M.
bovis is treated similarly to inactive TB or TB disease caused by M.
tuberculosis.
In fact, health care providers might not know that a person's TB disease is caused by M.
bovis instead of M.
tuberculosis.
bovis is usually resistant to pyrazinamide, one of the medicines used to treat active TB disease.
However, resistance to just pyrazinamide does not usually cause problems with treatment for TB disease, because TB disease is treated with a combination of several different medicines.
KEEP READING: Treating Tuberculosis How animals are affected The Cooperative State-Federal Tuberculosis Eradication Program, including the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, state animal health agencies, and U.S.
livestock producers, has nearly eliminated M.
bovis infection from cattle in the United States.
Inspectors test more than one million animals a year for TB and have taken steps to eradicate the disease.
However, M.
bovis can be found in wild animals such as bison, elk, and deer.
Uninfected cattle that come into contact with these wild animals can become infected.
Cattle and products from cattle outside the United States, particularly in developing countries, might not have the same level of inspection for M.
bovis infection or contamination, respectively.
Be cautious when consuming imported dairy products and ensure that the products have been properly pasteurized.
Resources U.S.
Department of Agriculture National Tuberculosis Eradication Program TB Programs ON THIS PAGE Overview Symptoms Exposure risks People at risk Reducing risk Quick facts Testing Treatment and recovery How animals are affected Resources RELATED PAGES About Inactive TB Active TB Disease Drug-Resistant TB Disease Children Pregnancy VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) Signs and Symptoms SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone DECEMBER 10, 2024 ESPAÑOL TB Risk and People Who Live or Work in Correctional Facilities KEY POINTS Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious health threat, especially for people who live or work in correctional facilities.
Correctional facilities are places with increased risk for TB because of several factors.
Correctional facility staff should work with TB programs to help prevent the spread of TB.
Overview TB is a challenging disease to identify, treat, and control, especially in settings like correctional facilities (e.g., prisons or jails) where people live and work close to each other.
Active TB disease in correctional facilities is a public health concern.‎ In 2023, 324 (3.6% of all U.S.
TB cases) persons 15 years of age or older with TB disease were residents of a correctional facility at the time of TB diagnosis.
People have a higher risk of being exposed to TB germs who: Live or used to live in large group settings where TB is more common, such as correctional facilities Work in places where TB is more likely to spread, such as correctional facilities KEEP READING: Exposure to Tuberculosis TB germs are more likely to spread in correctional facilities due to several factors, including: People who may have increased risk for TB due to other health conditions, Environment of the facilities such as people living in close proximity, poor air flow, shared airspaces, and overcrowding, and Movement of people between facilities.
Correctional facility staff or other service providers can contact their local or state TB program for information about TB prevention and control.
Correctional facilities should develop plans to identify and treat TB disease to prevent TB outbreaks.
Definition of correctional health Correctional health encompasses all aspects of health and well-being for adults and juveniles who are justice systemA-involved, from their arrest, during detention or incarceration, and through the time they return to their community (called “reentry”).
A person who is 'justice systemA-involved' is any person who is currently or has ever been arrested or incarcerated in a detention or correctional facility.
This term also includes those reentering their communities after detention or incarceration, including those on parole or probation.
Correctional health also includes the health of families and communities of persons who are justice systemA-involved and of the administrators and staff who work in facilities.
Persons who are justice systemA-involved may have had varying levels of medical care before entering a correctional facility1.
They may not have had access to medical care to diagnose inactive TB (or latent TB infection) or active TB disease early.
People with inactive TB do not feel sick, do not have symptoms, and cannot spread TB germs to others.
Without treatment, people with inactive TB can develop active TB disease at any time and become sick.
Active TB disease can spread to others and be deadly.
Preventing, finding and treating active TB disease early is important to stop the spread of TB germs and keep people who live or work in correctional facilities safe.
Conditions that can increase risk People who live or work in correctional facilities and have certain medical conditions may be at higher risk of developing active TB disease once they are infected with TB germs.
Some people in prison or jail are more likely to use substances, such as drugs and alcohol1.
Substance use is a risk factor for TB disease.
It includes excess alcohol use, noninjecting drug use, and injecting drug use.
Substance use can be a barrier to TB diagnosis and treatment.
Some people have a weaker immune system because of certain medications or health conditions such as diabetes, cancer, or HIV.
A weakened immune system increases a person's risk for developing active TB disease once infected with TB germs.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Risk Factors Places with increased risk Correctional facilities are places with increased risk for TB because of the environment of the facilities.
Correctional facilities: Are places where people live in close physical proximity, May have poor air flow and shared airspaces, and May be overcrowded.
These characteristics can make it more likely for some diseases, including active TB disease, to spread.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis: Causes and How It Spreads Movement between facilities Moving people into and out of facilities that may be overcrowded and have poor air flow increase the risk for the spread of active TB disease1.
Moving people from one facility to another also makes it challenging for people with inactive TB or active TB disease to complete treatment1.
Treatment for inactive TB or active TB disease can take several months.
Moving to a different facility may interrupt a person's medical care making it difficult to adhere to treatment.
Correctional facilities should coordinate with other correctional facilities and health departments to help people continue and complete their treatment for inactive TB or active TB disease even if they are moved to a different facility or reenter their community1.
Prevention and control Effective TB prevention and control measures are important to protect people who live or work in correctional facilities and the community.
These measures include: Implementing a TB screening program, Treating people for inactive TB and active TB disease, and Conducting a thorough and efficient contact investigation when a case of active TB disease is diagnosed.
Correctional facilities should work closely with local or state TB programs and other partners to implement TB prevention and control measures.
Resources Questions and Answers About Tuberculosis Booklet Download Think.
Treat TB Tuberculosis Data ON THIS PAGE Overview Conditions that can increase risk Places with increased risk Movement between facilities Prevention and control Resources RELATED PAGES Risk Factors TB Risk and People with Diabetes TB Risk and People with HIV TB Risk and People Experiencing Homelessness TB Risk and People Born in or Who Travel to Places Where TB is Common VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) TB Risk and People Experiencing Homelessness SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Guidelines Clinical Signs and Symptoms Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) Vaccine Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Treatment Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources VIEW ALL Public Health Tuberculosis Case Reporting Guidance for Public Health Professionals Laboratory Information False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Prioritizing TB Genotype Clusters Tuberculosis Genotyping Dear Colleague Letters MDDR Request Form VIEW ALL Related Topics: TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings | Information for Tuberculosis Programs View All For Everyone OCTOBER 30, 2024 ESPAÑOL TB Risk and People Experiencing Homelessness KEY POINTS Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious health threat, especially for people experiencing homelessness.
Homeless shelter staff can help prevent the spread of TB germs in homeless shelters.
CDC has resources for homeless service providers.
Overview TB is a challenging disease to identify, treat, and control, especially in settings like homeless shelters where people live and work close to each other.
People experiencing homelessness often do not have ready access to the medical care to diagnose inactive TB or active TB disease early.
Without treatment, people with inactive TB can develop active TB disease at any time and become sick.
People with active TB disease may be able to spread the germs to people they spend time with every day.
Without treatment, active TB disease can be fatal.
Preventing, finding, and treating active TB disease early is important to stop the spread of TB germs and keep people experiencing homelessness safe.
Active TB disease in homeless shelters is a public health concern.‎ In 2023, among persons 15 years of age or older with TB disease 695 (8.3%) persons reported ever experiencing homelessness during their lifetime and 536 (5.9%) persons reported experiencing homelessness within 12 months prior to TB diagnosis.
People have a higher risk of being exposed to TB germs who: Live or used to live in large group settings where TB is more common, such as homeless shelters Work in places where TB is more likely to spread, such as homeless shelters KEEP READING: Exposure to Tuberculosis TB germs are more likely to spread in homeless shelters due to several factors, including: People who may have increased risk for TB due to certain health conditions, Environment of the shelters, such as people living in close proximity, poor air flow, shared airspaces, and overcrowding, and Movement of people between shelters.
Homeless shelter staff or other service providers can contact their local or state TB program for information about TB prevention and control.
Homeless shelters should develop plans to identify and treat active TB disease to prevent TB outbreaks.
Conditions that can increase risk People who live or work in homeless shelters and take certain medications or have health conditions may be at higher risk of developing active TB disease once they are infected with TB germs.
People experiencing homelessness are more likely to use substances, which is a risk factor for TB.
Substance use includes excess alcohol use, noninjecting drug use, and injecting drug use.
It can be a barrier to TB diagnosis and treatment.
Some people with weakened immune systems (due to certain medications or health conditions) are at very high risk of developing active TB disease once infected with TB germs.
It is very important that these people receive treatment for inactive TB to prevent the development of active TB disease.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Risk Factors Places with increased risk Homeless shelters are places with increased risk for TB because of the physical environment of the shelter.
Shelters: Are places where people live in close physical proximity, May have poor air flow and shared airspaces, and May be overcrowded.
These characteristics can make it more likely for some diseases, including TB disease, to spread.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis: Causes and How It Spreads Movement between shelters People experiencing homelessness may move from one shelter to another.
This may make it challenging to complete treatment for inactive TB or active TB disease, especially if shelters are in different jurisdictions.
Providers serving people who experience homelessness can work with state or local TB programs and other partners to ensure people experiencing homelessness can continue and complete TB treatment.
It can also be difficult for state or local TB programs to locate people who may have been exposed to someone with active TB disease in a homeless shelter, but may not be living in the shelter currently.
What CDC is doing Ending TB will require a dual approach of maintaining and strengthening efforts to diagnose and treat TB, especially in populations at increased risk, such as people experiencing homelessness.
To address TB among people experiencing homelessness, CDC: Collaborates with other national and public health organizations to improve screening, diagnosis, and treatment for people experiencing homelessness; and Works to improve TB control activities in partnership with health care agencies addressing the needs of people experiencing homelessness.
Prevention and control Effective TB prevention and control measures in homeless shelters are important to protect people who live or work in shelters as well as the community.
These measures include: Implementing a TB screening program, Treating people for inactive TB and active TB disease, and Conducting a thorough and efficient contact investigation when a case of active TB disease is diagnosed.
Homeless shelters should work closely with local or state TB programs and other partners to implement TB prevention and control measures.
Resources Curry International TB Center Curry International TB Center: Homelessness and TB Curry International TB Center: Tools for Homeless Service Providers Global Tuberculosis Institute at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Global Tuberculosis Institute: TB Among the Homeless: Dealing with Unique Challenges Staying on Track with Tuberculosis Medicine Booklet Download ON THIS PAGE Overview Conditions that can increase risk Places with increased risk Movement between shelters What CDC is doing Prevention and control Resources RELATED PAGES Risk Factors TB Risk and People with Diabetes TB Risk and People with HIV TB Risk and People Who Live or Work in Correctional Facilities TB Risk and People Born in or Who Travel to Places Where TB is Common VIEW ALL Tuberculosis (TB) TB Risk and People Born in or Who Travel to Places Where TB is Common SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Recommendations and Reports July 7, 2006 / 55(RR09);1-44 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities: Recommendations from CDC Endorsed by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis, the National Commission on Correctional Health Care, and the American Correctional Association The material in this report originated in the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (proposed), Kevin Fenton, MD, PhD, Director, and the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, Kenneth G.
Castro, MD, Director.
Corresponding address: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (proposed), CDC, 1600 Clifton Road, NE, MS E-10, Atlanta, GA 30333.
Telephone: 404-639-8120; Fax: 404-639-8604.
Summary Tuberculosis (TB) control can be particularly problematic in correctional and detention facilities, in which persons from diverse backgrounds and communities are housed in close proximity for varying periods.
This report provides a framework and general guidelines for effective prevention and control of TB in jails, prisons, and other correctional and detention facilities.
Recommendations were developed on the basis of published guidelines and a review of the scientific literature.
Effective TB-prevention and -control measures in correctional facilities include early identification of persons with TB disease through entry and periodic follow-up screening; successful treatment of TB disease and latent TB infection; appropriate use of airborne precautions (e.g., airborne infection isolation, environmental controls, and respiratory protection); comprehensive discharge planning; and thorough and efficient contact investigation.
These measures should be instituted in close collaboration with local or state health department TB-control programs and other key partners.
Continuing education of inmates, detainees, and correctional facility staff is necessary to maximize cooperation and participation.
To ensure TB-prevention and -control measures are effective, periodic program evaluation should be conducted.
Introduction Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis that adversely affects public health around the world (1).
In the United States, TB control remains a substantial public health challenge in multiple settings.
TB can be particularly problematic in correctional and detention facilities (2), in which persons from diverse backgrounds and communities are housed in close proximity for varying periods.
Effective TB prevention and control measures in correctional facilities are needed to reduce TB rates among inmates and the general U.S.
population.
The recommendations provided in this report for the control of TB in correctional facilities expand on, update, and supersede recommendations issued by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of TB (ACET) in 1996 (3).
This report provides a framework and general guidelines for effective prevention and control of TB in jails, prisons, and other correctional and detention facilities.
In addition, on the basis of existing scientific knowledge and applied experience of correctional and public health officials, this report defines the essential activities necessary for preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis in correctional facilities.
These overarching activities are best achieved when correctional facility and public health department staff are provided with clear roles of shared responsibility.
The recommendations in this report can assist officials of federal, state, and local correctional facilities in preventing transmission of TB and controlling TB among inmates and facility employees.
The target audience for this report includes public health department personnel, correctional medical directors and administrators, private correctional health vendors, staff in federal and state agencies, staff in professional organizations, and health-care professionals.
The report is intended to assist policymakers in reaching informed decisions regarding the prevention and control of TB in correctional facilities.
Methods To update the existing guidelines, with assistance from ACET, CDC organized and convened the Tuberculosis in Corrections Working Group, an ad hoc group of persons with expertise in public health and health care in correctional facilities.
Organizations represented in the Working Group included ACET, the National Commission on Correctional Health Care, the American Correctional Association, the American Jail Association, and the Society of Correctional Physicians.
The Working Group reviewed published guidelines and recommendations, published and unpublished policies and protocols, and peer-reviewed studies discussing overall TB prevention and control and aspects of TB prevention and control specific to correctional and detention facilities.
These guidelines, recommendations, policies, protocols, and studies form the basis for the Working Group's recommendations.
Because controlled trials are lacking for TB prevention and control activities and interventions specific to correctional and detention facilities, the recommendations have not been rated on the quality and quantity of the evidence.
The recommendations reflect the expert opinion of the Working Group members with regard to best practices, based on their experience and their review of the literature.
Summary of Changes from Previous Recommendations These guidelines are intended for short- and long-term confinement facilities (e.g., prisons, jails, and juvenile detention centers), which are typically referred to as correctional facilities throughout this report.
These recommendations differ as follows from those made in 1996: The target audience has been broadened to include persons working in jails and other detention facilities.
The need for correctional and detention facilities to base screening procedures for inmates and detainees on assessment of their risk for TB is emphasized.
A description of how TB risk should be assessed is included.
The need for institutions to conduct a review of symptoms of TB for all inmates and detainees at entry is discussed.
The need for all inmates and detainees with suspected TB to be placed in airborne infection isolation (AII) immediately is emphasized.
Testing recommendations have been updated to reflect the development of the QuantiFERON®-TB Gold test (QFT-G), a new version of the QuantiFERON®-TB (QFT) diagnostic test for M.
tuberculosis infection.
The section on environmental controls has been expanded to cover local exhaust ventilation, general ventilation, air cleaning, and implementation of an environmental control program.
Ventilation recommendations for selected areas in new or renovated correctional facilities have been included.
A section on respiratory protection has been added, including information on implementing respiratory protection programs.
Treatment recommendations for TB and LTBI have been updated on the basis of the most recent treatment statements published by CDC, the American Thoracic Society (ATS), and the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Emphasis is placed on case management of inmates with TB disease and LTBI.
The need for early discharge planning coordinated with local public health staff is emphasized.
A section has been included on U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainees.
The importance of collaboration between correctional facility and public health staff is emphasized, particularly with respect to discharge planning and contact investigation.
The need for corrections staff to work closely with public health staff to tailor an appropriately comprehensive training program to achieve and sustain TB control in a correctional facility is emphasized.
The need for public health workers to receive education regarding the correctional environment is emphasized.
Program evaluation is emphasized.
Recommended areas of evaluation include assessment of TB risk in the facility, performance measurement for quality improvement, collaboration, information infrastructure, and using evaluation information to improve the TB-control program.
Background During 1980--2003, the number of incarcerated persons in the United States increased fourfold, from approximately 500,000 in 1980 to approximately 2 million in 2003 (4,5).
A disproportionately high percentage of TB cases occur among persons incarcerated in U.S.
correctional facilities.
In 2003 at midyear, although 0.7% of the total US population was confined in prisons and jails, 3.2% of all TB cases nationwide occurred among residents of correctional facilities (6).
Although overall incidence of new TB cases among the U.S.
For example, the incidence of TB among inmates in New Jersey during 1994 was 91.2 cases per 100,000 inmates, compared with 11.0 cases per 100,000 persons among all New Jersey residents (3).
In 1991, a TB case rate for inmates of a California prison was 184 cases per 100,000 persons, which was 10 times greater than the statewide rate (7).
In addition, in 1993, the TB rate for inmates in the New York State correctional system was 139.3 cases per 100,000 persons, an increase from the rate of 15.4 during 1976--1978 (3,8).
In California, the TB case rate reported from an urban jail in a high-prevalence area was 72.1 cases per 100,000 inmates in 1998, representing 10% of the county's cases in that year (9).
Studies have demonstrated the prevalence of LTBI among inmates to be as high as 25% (10--14).
Other studies have demonstrated a correlation between length of incarceration and positive tuberculin skin test (TST) response, indicating that transmission might have occurred in these facilities (15,16).
At least three factors contribute to the high rate of TB in correctional and detention facilities.
These persons often have not received standard public health interventions or nonemergency medical care before incarceration.
Second, the physical structure of the facilities contributes to disease transmission, as facilities often provide close living quarters, might have inadequate ventilation, and can be overcrowded (9,17--19).
Third, movement of inmates into and out of overcrowded and inadequately ventilated facilities, coupled with existing TB-related risk factors of the inmates, combine to make correctional and detention facilities a high-risk environment for the transmission of M.
tuberculosis and make implementation of TB-control measures particularly difficult (19).
Despite recent efforts to improve TB-control measures in correctional and detention facilities, outbreaks of TB continue to occur in these settings, and TB disease has been transmitted to persons living in nearby communities (20--22).
Consequently, correctional and detention facilities are critical settings in which to provide interventions for detecting and treating TB among a vulnerable population.
Addressing the Challenges of TB Control in Correctional Facilities Published recommendations for elimination of TB in the United States include testing and treating inmates in correctional facilities for LTBI to prevent the development and transmission of TB (23).
The basis for this recommendation is that LTBI and coinfection with HIV are more common in these underserved populations than in the general population (24--26).
However, treating correctional inmates for LTBI can be challenging.
Before being incarcerated, inmates might have faced barriers to accessing community health services necessary for the detection and treatment of TB disease and LTBI (27).
In addition, inmates released from correctional facilities often do not attend clinic visits or adhere to treatment regimens.
One study of inmates released before completion of TB therapy indicated that only 43% made at least one visit to the clinic after release (28).
In another jail setting, using an educational intervention increased the rate of clinic visits after release from 3% to only 23% (29).
In the United States, TB is concentrated increasingly among the most disadvantaged populations, particularly immigrants (30).
Detained immigrants are arriving largely from countries with a high prevalence of TB (e.g., Mexico, the Philippines, and Vietnam) and therefore present unique challenges in the elimination of TB in the United States* (31).
Social and legal barriers often make standard testing and treatment interventions inadequate among undocumented immigrants (31).
In certain instances, these patients have become resistant to first-line anti-TB drugs because of the interrupted treatment received in their countries of origin (32).
However, undocumented immigrants placed in detention and correctional facilities have an opportunity to receive TB screening and begin treatment for TB disease (33).
Rationale for Updating and Strengthening TB Control and Prevention Guidelines Transmission of M.
tuberculosis continues to be documented within correctional facilities, primarily as a result of undiagnosed TB.
Inmates with undiagnosed TB disease place other inmates and correctional staff at risk for TB, and when released, these persons also can infect persons living in surrounding communities (16,17,20,21,22,34,35).
Despite the continued transmission of TB in correctional settings, few comprehensive evaluations of the implementation of TB-detection and -control procedures in correctional facilities have been performed (36--38).
Nevertheless, correctional facilities are increasingly basing their TB prevention and control procedures on studies and data that support judicious interventions, including screening, case finding, case management, outbreak and contact investigations, and treatment for LTBI (7,9,14,21,28,33,34,39--46).
Improving TB prevention and control practices within these settings is necessary to reduce rates of disease and eventually eliminate TB.
TB prevention and control practices within correctional facilities should be strengthened for multiple reasons: M.
tuberculosis is spread through the air.
One highly infectious person can infect inmates, correctional staff, and visitors who share the same air space.
Immediate isolation of infectious patients can interrupt transmission of M.
tuberculosis in the facility.
Prompt initiation of an adequate regimen of directly observed therapy (DOT)† helps ensure adherence to treatment because a health-care professional, a specially trained correctional officer, or a health department employee observes the patient swallowing each dose of medication.
This method of treatment can diminish infectiousness, reduce the risk for relapse, and help prevent the development of drug-resistant strains of M.
tuberculosis.
Inmates of correctional facilities have been reported to have relatively high rates of HIV infection; persons who are coinfected with HIV and M.
tuberculosis are at high risk for progressing from LTBI to TB disease.
A completed regimen of treatment for LTBI can prevent the development of TB disease in persons who are infected with M.
tuberculosis.
Correctional facility officials have an opportunity to treat inmates who have TB disease or LTBI before such inmates are released into the community.
Because a substantial proportion of inmates do not have any other access to the health-care system, the correctional setting can be a primary source of health information, intervention, and maintenance.
Screening Early identification and successful treatment of persons with TB disease remains the most effective means of preventing disease transmission (47).
Therefore, inmates who are likely to have infectious TB should be identified and begin treatment before they are integrated into the general correctional facility population (i.e., at the time of admission into the correctional system).
When possible, newly arrived inmates should not be housed with other inmates until they have been appropriately screened for TB disease.
Screening programs in the correctional setting also allow for the detection of substantial numbers of persons with LTBI who are at high risk for progressing to TB disease and would likely benefit from a course of treatment.
This secondary benefit of screening programs is often limited by inability to initiate and ensure completion of LTBI treatment, particularly in short-term correctional facilities.
In addition to screening at intake, routine (i.e., at least annual) screening of long-term inmates and correctional facility staff (e.g., custody and medical) should be incorporated into the TB-control program (48,49).
How screening activities should be implemented depends on multiple factors, including 1) the type of facility, 2) the prevalence of TB infection and disease in the facility, 3) the prevalence of TB in the inmates' communities, 4) the prevalence of other risk factors for TB (e.g., HIV) in the inmate population, and 5) the average length of stay of inmates in the facility.
The type of screening recommended for a particular facility is determined by an assessment of the risk for TB transmission within that facility.
The risk assessment should be performed at least annually and should be made in collaboration with the local or state health department.
A facility's TB risk can be defined as being minimal or nonminimal.
A facility has minimal TB risk if no cases of infectious TB have occurred in the facility in the last year, the facility does not house substantial numbers of inmates with risk factors for TB (e.g., HIV infection and injection-drug use), the facility does not house substantial numbers of new immigrants (i.e., persons arriving in the United States within the previous 5 years) from areas of the world with high rates of TB, and employees of the facility are not otherwise at risk for TB.
Any facility that does not meet these criteria should be categorized as a nonminimal TB risk facility.
Screening Methods Symptom Screening Whenever possible, health-care professionals should perform the initial screening.
However, correctional officers in jails (particularly those housing minimal numbers of inmates) frequently administer health intake questionnaires.
If custody staff members conduct the intake screening, they should receive adequate periodic training in taking a medical history, making necessary observations, and determining the appropriate disposition of inmates with signs or symptoms of possible medical problems.
Staff conducting medical intake should receive appropriate counseling and education regarding medical confidentiality.
During their initial medical screening, inmates should be asked if they have a history of TB disease or if they have been treated for LTBI or TB disease previously.
Documentation of any such history should be obtained from medical records, if possible.
Inmates should be observed for the presence of a cough or evidence of significant weight loss.
The index of suspicion should be high when pulmonary symptoms are accompanied by general, systemic symptoms of TB (e.g., fever, chills, night sweats, easy fatigability, loss of appetite, and weight loss).
Inmates should be interviewed systematically (i.e., using a standardized questionnaire) to determine whether they have experienced symptoms in recent weeks.
Inmates who have symptoms suggestive of TB disease should immediately receive a thorough medical evaluation, including a TST or QFT-G, a chest radiograph, and, if indicated, sputum examinations.
Persons with symptoms suggestive of TB disease or with a history of inadequate treatment for TB disease should be immediately placed in an AII room§ until they have undergone a thorough medical evaluation.
If deemed infectious, such persons should remain in isolation until treatment has rendered them noninfectious.
Facilities without an on-site AII room should have a written plan for referring patients with suspected or confirmed TB to a facility that is equipped to isolate, evaluate, and treat TB patients.
Symptom screening alone is an unsatisfactory screening mechanism for TB, except in facilities with a minimal risk for TB transmission.
The use of symptom screening alone often will fail to detect pulmonary TB in inmates.
Chest-Radiograph Screening Screening with chest radiographs can be an effective means of detecting new cases of unsuspected TB disease at intake to a correctional facility.
In addition, radiographic screening requires fewer subsequent visits than a TST (i.e., only those inmates with suspicious radiographs or TB symptoms require follow-up).
However, such screening will not identify inmates with LTBI.
One study demonstrated that screening inmates with a chest radiograph doubled the TB case-finding rate and reduced the time from intake into the correctional facility to isolation substantially compared with TST testing (2.3 days and 7.5 days, respectively), thereby reducing the risk for TB exposure for other inmates and staff (50).
Digital radiographs (miniature or full-size) provide enhanced imaging and improved storage and readability.
One cost-effectiveness analysis of miniature chest radiography for TB screening on admission to jail indicated that more cases were detected with this method than either TST or symptom screening, and the cost of radiograph screening was less per case detected (51).
The extent to which radiologic screening is used in a given institution should be dictated by multiple factors, including 1) local epidemiologic characteristics of TB disease; 2) inmate length of stay; 3) the ability of the health-care professionals within the facility to conduct careful histories, tuberculin skin or QFT-G testing, and cross-matches with state TB registries; and 4) timeliness of the radiographic study and its reading.
Screening with chest radiographs might be appropriate in certain jails and detention facilities that house substantial numbers of inmates for short periods and serve populations at high risk for TB (e.g., those with high prevalence of HIV infection or history of injection-drug use and foreign-born persons from countries in which TB prevalence is high).
Inmates who are infected with HIV might be anergic and consequently might have false-negative TST results.
However, routine anergy panel testing is not recommended because it has not been demonstrated to assist in diagnosing or excluding LTBI (52).
In facilities that do not perform routine radiographic screening for all inmates, a chest radiograph should be part of the initial screening of HIV-infected patients and those who are at risk for HIV infection but whose status is unknown.
In facilities with on-site radiographic screening, the chest radiograph should be performed as part of intake screening and read promptly by a physician, preferably within 24 hours.
Persons who have radiographs suggestive of TB should be isolated immediately and evaluated further.
Sputum-smear and culture examinations should be performed for inmates whose chest radiographs are consistent with TB disease and might be indicated for at least certain persons who are symptomatic, regardless of their TST, QFT-G, or chest radiograph results because persons with HIV and TB disease might have "negative" chest radiographs in addition to false-negative TST or QFT-G results.
Mantoux TST Screening Tuberculin skin testing using 0.1 mL of 5 tuberculin units (TU) of purified protein derivative (PPD) is the most common method of testing for TB infection.
Multiple-puncture tests (e.g., the tine test) should not be used to determine whether a person is infected.
For persons with a history of severe necrotic reactions and without a documented positive result with a millimeter reading, a QFT-G may be substituted for the TST.
Otherwise, such persons should be screened for symptoms of TB and receive a chest radiograph unless they have had one recently (i.e., within 6 months) and are not symptomatic.
Pregnancy, lactation, or previous vaccination with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine are not contraindications for tuberculin skin testing.
The TST is not completely sensitive for TB disease; its sensitivity ranges from 75%--90% (53,54).
Despite this limitation, skin testing, along with use of a symptom review, frequently constitutes the most practical approach to screening for TB disease.
A trained health-care professional should place the TST and interpret the reaction 48--72 hours after the injection by measuring the area of induration (i.e., the palpable swelling) at the injection site.
The diameter of the indurated area should be measured across the width of the forearm.
Erythema (i.e., the redness of the skin) should not be measured.
All reactions, even those classified as negative, should be recorded in millimeters of induration.
Persons who have a positive TST result and no symptoms suggestive of TB disease should be evaluated with a chest radiograph within 72 hours after the skin test is interpreted.
Persons who have symptoms suggestive of TB disease should be evaluated immediately and placed in an AII room until TB is ruled out (see Symptom Screening).
The use of two-step testing can reduce the number of positive TSTs that would otherwise be misclassified as recent skin-test conversions during future periodic screenings.
Certain persons who were infected with M.
tuberculosis years earlier exhibit waning delayed-type hypersensitivity to tuberculin.
When they are skin tested years after infection, they might have a false-negative TST result (even though they are truly infected).
However, this first skin test years after the infection might stimulate the ability to react to subsequent tests, resulting in a "booster" reaction.
When the test is repeated, the reaction might be misinterpreted as a new infection (recent conversion) rather than a boosted reaction.
For two-step testing, persons whose baseline TSTs yield a negative result are retested 1--3 weeks after the initial test.
If the second test result is negative, they are considered not infected.
If the second test result is positive, they are classified as having had previous TB infection.
Two-step testing should be considered for the baseline testing of persons who report no history of a recent TST and who will receive repeated TSTs as part of an institutional periodic skin-testing program.
In the majority of cases, a two-step TST is not practical in jails because of the short average length of stay of inmates.
In the past, a panel of other common antigens was often applied with the TST to obtain information regarding the competence of the patient's cellular immune system and to identify anergy.
More recently, however, anergy testing has been demonstrated to be of limited usefulness because of problems with standardization and reproducibility, the low risk for TB associated with a diagnosis of anergy, and the lack of apparent benefit of preventive therapy for groups of anergic HIV-infected persons.
Therefore, the use of anergy testing in conjunction with a TST is no longer recommended routinely for screening programs for M.
tuberculosis infection in the United States (52).
Intracutaneous inoculation with BCG is currently used worldwide as a vaccine against TB.
BCG is a live attenuated Mycobacterium bovis strain that stimulates the immune system to protect against TB.
TST is not contraindicated for persons who have been vaccinated with BCG, and the TST results of such persons are used to support or exclude the diagnosis of M.
tuberculosis infection.
A diagnosis of M.
tuberculosis infection and treatment for LTBI should be considered for any BCG-vaccinated person who has a positive TST reaction.
The same criteria for interpretation of TST results are used for both BCG-vaccinated and nonvaccinated persons (56).
QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Test In May 2005, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) licensed QFT-G.
This in-vitro diagnostic test measures the amount of interferon-gamma produced by cells in whole blood that have been stimulated by mycobacterial peptides.
The peptides used in the test mimic proteins known as ESAT-6 and CFP-10, which are present in M.
tuberculosis but absent from all BCG strains and from the majority of commonly encountered non-TB mycobacteria.
The test is intended for use as a diagnostic tool for M.
tuberculosis infection, including both TB disease and LTBI.
As with a TST, QFT-G cannot distinguish between LTBI and TB disease and should be used in conjunction with risk assessment, radiography, and other diagnostic evaluations.
The advantages of QFT-G compared with TST are that 1) results can be obtained after a single patient visit, 2) the variability associated with skin-test reading can be reduced because "reading" is performed in a qualified laboratory, and 3) QFT-G is not affected by previous BCG vaccination and eliminates the unnecessary treatment of persons with false-positive results.
QFT-G does not affect the result of future QFT-G tests (i.e., no "boosting" occurs).
Limitations of the test include the need for phlebotomy, the need to process blood specimens within 12 hours of collection for the most recent version of the test, the limited number of laboratories that process the test, and a lack of clinical experience in interpreting test results.
The elimination of the second visit for reading the TST, however, is likely to render the QFT-G competitive in cost-benefit considerations.
Although the performance of QFT-G has not been evaluated sufficiently in select populations of interest (e.g., HIV-infected persons), available data indicate that QFT-G is as sensitive as TST for detection of TB disease and more specific than TST for detection of LTBI (57,58).
CDC guidelines for QFT-G recommend that QFT-G can be used in place of TST in all circumstances in which TST is currently used (58).
This includes initial and periodic TB screening for correctional facility inmates and employees and testing of exposed persons in contact investigations.
Because data are insufficient regarding performance of QFT-G in certain clinical situations, as with a negative TST result, a negative QFT-G result alone might not be sufficient to exclude M.
tuberculosis infection in these situations.
Examples of such clinical scenarios include those involving patients with severe immunosuppression who have had recent exposure to a patient with TB and patients being treated or about to undergo treatment with potent tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) antagonists.
Use of Local Health Department TB Registry Correctional facilities and local health departments should collaborate to ensure effective TB screening in the correctional setting.
Inmates might provide inaccurate information on admission for multiple reasons, ranging from forgetfulness and confusion to deliberate misrepresentation.
Health departments should perform cross-matches with the local TB registry and search for matches on known aliases, birth dates, maiden names, and other personal information for inmates suspected of having TB infection.
A readily accessible record of previous TB history, drug-susceptibility patterns, treatment, and compliance can be useful in determining the disposition of a given patient with suspected TB.
Initial Screening The following procedures should be used for the initial screening of inmates and detainees (depending on their length of stay in the facility and the type of facility) and for all correctional facility employees, regardless of the type of facility.
Inmates in Minimal TB Risk Facilities Inmates in all minimal TB risk correctional and detention facilities should be evaluated on entry for symptoms of TB.
Persons with symptoms of TB should be evaluated immediately to rule out the presence of infectious disease and kept in an AII room until they are evaluated.
If the facility does not have an AII room, the inmate should be transported to a facility that has one.
In addition, all newly arrived inmates should be evaluated for clinical conditions and other factors that increase the risk for infection or the risk for progressing to TB disease, including the following: HIV infection, recent immigration, history of TB, recent close contact with a person with TB disease, injection-drug use, diabetes mellitus, immunosuppressive therapy, hematologic malignancy or lymphoma, chronic renal failure, medical conditions associated with substantial weight loss or malnutrition, or history of gastrectomy or jejunoileal bypass.
Persons with any of these conditions require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of the TST or QFT-G result, inmates known to have HIV infection or other severe immunosuppression, and those who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have an abnormal chest radiograph should be further evaluated to rule out TB disease; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, LTBI therapy should be considered if the TST or QFT-G result is positive.
Inmates in Nonminimal TB Risk Prisons Immediately on arrival, all new inmates should be screened for symptoms, and any inmate with symptoms suggestive of TB should be placed in an AII room and evaluated promptly for TB disease.
If the facility does not have an AII room, the inmate should be transported to a facility that has one.
Inmates who have no symptoms require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of their TST or QFT-G status, inmates known to have HIV infection or other severe immunosuppression, and those who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have an abnormal chest radiograph should be further evaluated to rule out TB disease; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, LTBI therapy should be considered if the TST or QFT-G result is positive.
As the rate of TB disease in the United States has decreased, identification and treatment of persons with LTBI who are at high risk for TB disease have become essential components of the TB elimination strategy promoted by ACET (59).
Targeted testing using the TST or QFT-G identifies persons at high risk for TB disease who would benefit from treatment for LTBI.
Prisons offer an excellent public health opportunity for identifying persons at high risk for TB who can be screened for TB infection and placed on LTBI therapy, if indicated.
If the TST is used, a two-step testing procedure should be strongly considered when obtaining a baseline reading.
A single step QFT-G is an adequate baseline.
Inmates with a positive test should be evaluated for LTBI therapy after TB disease is excluded.
Inmates in Nonminimal TB Risk Jails and Other Short-Term Detention Facilities As in prisons, all new detainees in nonminimal TB risk jails should be screened on entry for symptoms, and any detainee who has symptoms suggestive of TB should be placed immediately in an AII room and evaluated promptly for TB disease.
If the facility does not have an AII room, the inmate should be transported promptly to a facility that does have one.
Detainees without symptoms require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of the TST or QFT-G result, detainees known to have HIV infection, and those who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have a positive result should be further evaluated to rule out TB disease.
The primary purpose of screening in correctional settings is to detect TB disease.
TST or QFT-G screening in jails to initiate LTBI therapy often is not practical because of the high rate of turnover and short lengths of stay.
Although not all jail detainees have short lengths of stay, determining which detainees will be in the jail for a long term is difficult.
Nationwide, approximately half of persons detained in local jails are released within 48 hours of admission.
Thus, even if all detainees can be tested at intake, a large proportion will be unavailable to have their TSTs read or to be evaluated when QFT-G test results are available.
Of those still in custody, a substantial percentage will be released before the radiographic and medical evaluation is completed.
In a 1996 study, 43% of detainees at a county jail in Illinois who had a positive TST result were released or transferred before their evaluation could be completed (3).
A substantial proportion of detainees who are incarcerated long enough to begin LTBI therapy will be released before completion of treatment.
A San Francisco study indicated that approximately 62% of detainees who were started on LTBI treatment were released before completion (40).
These data illustrate the challenges of implementing a testing and treatment program for LTBI in jails with highly dynamic detainee populations.
Certain jails have adopted a targeted approach of performing TSTs only on new detainees who are at high risk for TB disease (e.g., detainees with known HIV infection).
Screening for TB and treating LTBI are most effective within the jail setting if resources dedicated to discharge planning and reliable access to community-based treatment are available.
Persons in Holding or Booking Facilities City, county, and other law enforcement authorities frequently have facilities that hold arrestees and detainees for short periods of time, ranging from hours to multiple days.
TB symptom screening is recommended for all persons at the time of entry into these facilities.
Any detainee who has symptoms suggestive of TB should be immediately isolated and transferred to a facility or hospital in which the detainee can be placed in an AII room and evaluated promptly for TB disease.
Employees in All Correctional and Detention Facilities A medical history relating to TB should be obtained from and recorded for all new employees at the time of hiring, and a physical examination for TB disease should be required.
The results of the screening and examination should be kept confidential; access should be granted to public health and infection control medical professionals only when necessary.
In addition, a TST or QFT-G should be mandatory for all employees who do not have a documented history of a positive result.
To improve the accuracy of the baseline result, a two-step TST or a single-step QFT-G should be used for the initial screening of employees who have not been tested during the preceding 12 months.
Persons who have a positive TST or QFT-G result should have a chest radiograph taken and interpreted and should be required to have a thorough medical evaluation; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, such persons should be considered for LTBI therapy.
All employees should be informed that they should seek appropriate follow-up and testing for TB if they are immunosuppressed for any reason (e.g., have HIV infection).
Any employee who has symptoms suggestive of TB should not return to the workplace until a clinician has excluded a diagnosis of infectious TB disease.
Other Persons Who Might Need to be Screened Certain persons who are neither inmates nor employees but who visit high-risk facilities on a regular basis also should be considered for screening.
These persons might include contractors (e.g., food handlers and service workers), volunteers, and those providing religious ministries.
Screening of these persons should follow the same procedures as those outlined for employees.
Periodic Screening Long-term inmates and all employees who have a negative TST or QFT-G result should have follow-up testing at least annually.
Persons who have a history of a positive test result should be screened for symptoms of TB disease.
Annual chest radiographs are unnecessary for the follow-up evaluation of infected persons.
Test results should be recorded in medical records and in a retrievable aggregate database of all TST or QFT-G results.
Personal identifying information should be kept confidential.
Correctional facilities can use multiple strategies to ensure annual screening of long-term inmates for newly acquired TB infection.
Certain institutions schedule annual screening on the inmate's date of birth or on the anniversary of the inmate's most recent test.
Other institutions and systems suspend inmate movement and screen the entire population on the same day every year.
Methods of screening a subset of the inmate population (e.g., on a monthly basis) are beneficial because they provide an ongoing assessment of M.
tuberculosis transmission within the facility.
Results from TST or QFT-G testing should be analyzed periodically to estimate the risk for acquiring new infection in a correctional facility; however, this analysis should be completed by using only the test results of facility employees and inmates who have remained in the facility continually during the interval between testing.
The conversion rate equals the number of employees or inmates whose test results have converted from negative to positive (i.e., the numerator) during a specific interval divided by the total number of previously negative employees or inmates who were tested during the same interval (i.e., the denominator).
In certain facilities, conducting an analysis of test results for specific areas or groups within the facility might be appropriate.
More frequent screening is needed when a conversion rate is substantially higher than previous rates or when other evidence of ongoing transmission is detected.
A cluster (i.e., either two or more patients with TB disease that are linked by epidemiologic or genotyping data or two or more TST or QFT-G conversions occurring in the correctional facility among inmates who are epidemiologically linked) or other evidence of person-to-person transmission also warrants additional epidemiologic investigation and possibly a revision of the facility's TB prevention and control protocol.
Facilities in which the risk for infection with M.
tuberculosis is minimal might not need to maintain a periodic screening program.
However, requiring baseline TST or QFT-G testing of employees would enable medical staff to distinguish between a TST or QFT-G conversion and a positive TST or QFT-G result caused by a previous exposure to M.
tuberculosis.
A decision to discontinue periodic employee screening should be made in consultation with the local or state health department.
HIV Counseling, Testing, and Referral HIV counseling, testing, and referral (CTR) should be routinely recommended for all persons in settings in which the population is at increased behavioral or clinical risk for acquiring or transmitting HIV infection, regardless of setting prevalence (62).
Because correctional facilities are considered settings in which the population is at increased risk for acquiring or transmitting HIV, routine HIV CTR is recommended for inmates.
Furthermore, HIV infection is the greatest risk factor for progression from LTBI to TB disease (63,64).
Therefore, HIV CTR should be routinely offered to all inmates and correctional facility staff with LTBI or TB disease if their HIV infection status is unknown at the time of their LTBI or TB disease diagnosis (64,65).
Correctional facilities should be particularly aware of the need for preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis in settings in which persons infected with HIV might be housed or might work (66).
Use of Data to Refine Policies and Procedures Correctional and detention facilities are strongly encouraged to collect and analyze data on the effectiveness of their TB screening policies and procedures.
Working in conjunction with their state or local TB-control program, correctional and detention facilities should refine their screening policies and procedures as indicated by such data.
In the absence of local data that justify revision, correctional and detention facilities should adhere to the screening recommendations detailed above.
Case Reporting All states require designated health-care professionals to report suspected and confirmed cases of TB to their local or state health department; this reporting is mandatory for all correctional facilities, whether private, federal, state, or local.
Correctional facility medical staff should report any suspected or confirmed TB cases among inmates or employees to the appropriate health agency in accordance with state and local laws and regulations, even if the inmate or detainee has already been released or transferred from the facility.
Reporting cases to health departments benefits the correctional facility by allowing it to obtain health department resources for case management and contact investigation in both the facility and the community.
For each suspected case of TB, the diagnosis or the exclusion of a diagnosis of TB should be entered immediately into 1) the person's medical record, 2) the retrievable aggregate TB-control database at the facility, and 3) the database at a centralized office if the system has multiple facilities.
In addition, drug-susceptibility results should be sent to the state or local health department for use in monitoring the rates of drug resistance in the health department's jurisdiction.
Drug-susceptibility reports also should be sent to all health departments managing the infectious person's contacts because the choice of medication for LTBI treatment is based on these drug-susceptibility test results (64).
alien number, FBOP number, or USMS number).
Federal law enforcement agencies frequently contract for bed space with local or private detention facilities.
Therefore, custodial authority and corresponding custody identification numbers should be verified with the facility's custody staff; detention facility medical staff might not have this information available.
Isolation in an Airborne Infection Isolation Room Initiation TB airborne precautions should be initiated for any patient who has signs or symptoms of TB disease or who has documented TB disease and has not completed treatment or not been determined previously to be noninfectious.
Discontinuation For patients placed in an AII room because of suspected infectious TB disease of the lungs, airways, or larynx, airborne precautions can be discontinued when infectious TB disease is considered unlikely and either 1) another diagnosis is made that explains the clinical syndrome or 2) the patient has three negative acid-fast bacilli (AFB) sputum-smear results (67,68).
The three sputum specimens should be collected 8--24 hours apart (69), and at least one should be an early morning specimen (because respiratory secretions pool overnight).
Typically, this will allow patients with negative sputum-smear results to be released from an AII room in 2 days.
Incarcerated patients for whom the suspicion of TB disease remains after the collection of three negative AFB sputum-smear results should not be released from airborne precautions until they are on standard multidrug anti-TB treatment and are clinically improving.
Because patients with TB disease who have negative AFB sputum-smear results can still be infectious (70), patients with suspected disease who meet the above criteria for release from airborne precautions should not be released to an area in which other patients with immunocompromising conditions are housed.
A patient who has drug-susceptible TB of the lung, airways, or larynx, is on standard multidrug anti-TB treatment, and has had a significant clinical and bacteriologic response to therapy (i.e., reduction in cough, resolution of fever, and progressively decreasing quantity of AFB on smear result) is probably no longer infectious.
However, because culture and drug-susceptibility results are not typically known when the decision to discontinue airborne precautions is made, all patients with confirmed TB disease should remain in an AII room while incarcerated until they have had three consecutive negative AFB sputum-smear results collected 8--24 hours apart, with at least one being an early morning specimen, have received standard multidrug anti-TB treatment, and have demonstrated clinical improvement.
Because the consequences of transmission of MDR TB (i.e., TB that is resistant to isoniazid and rifampin) are severe, infection-control practitioners might choose to keep persons with suspected or confirmed MDR TB disease in an AII room until negative sputum-culture results have been documented in addition to negative AFB sputum-smear results.
Environmental Controls Overview Guidelines for preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis in health-care settings and for environmental infection control in health-care facilities have been published previously (71,72).
These guidelines and this report can be used to educate correctional facility staff regarding use of environmental controls in TB infection-control programs.
Environmental controls should be implemented when the risk for TB transmission persists despite efforts to screen and treat infected inmates.
Environmental controls are used to remove or inactivate M.
tuberculosis in areas in which the organism could be transmitted.
Primary environmental controls consist of controlling the source of infection by using local exhaust ventilation (e.g., hoods, tents, or booths) and diluting and removing contaminated air by using general ventilation.
These controls help prevent the spread and reduce the concentration of airborne infectious droplet nuclei (see Glossary).
Environmental controls work in conjunction with administrative controls such as isolation of inmates with suspected TB disease detected through screening (see Glossary).
tuberculosis in health-care settings have been published previously (71).
To be effective, secondary environmental controls should be used and maintained properly, and their strengths and limitations should be recognized.
The engineering design and operational efficacy parameters for UVGI as a secondary control measure (i.e., portable UVGI units, upper-room air UVGI, and in-duct UVGI) continue to evolve and require special attention in their design, selection, and maintenance.
Exposure to M.
tuberculosis within correctional facilities can be reduced through the effective use of environmental controls at the source of exposure (e.g., an infectious inmate) or in general areas.
Source-control techniques can prevent or reduce the spread of infectious droplet nuclei into the air in situations in which the source has been identified and the generation of the contaminant is localized by collecting infectious particles as they are released.
Use of these techniques is particularly prudent during procedures that are likely to generate infectious aerosols (e.g., bronchoscopy and sputum induction) and when inmates with infectious TB disease are coughing or sneezing.
Unsuspected and undiagnosed cases of infectious TB disease contribute substantially to disease transmission within correctional facilities (73).
When attempting to control this type of transmission, source control is not a feasible option.
Instead, general ventilation and air cleaning should be relied on for environmental control.
General ventilation can be used to dilute the air and remove air contaminants and to control airflow patterns in AII rooms or other correctional facility settings.
Air-cleaning technologies include mechanical air filtration to reduce the concentration of M.
tuberculosis droplet nuclei and UVGI to kill or inactivate microorganisms so they no longer pose a risk for infection.
Ventilation systems for correctional facility settings should be designed, and modified when necessary, by ventilation engineers in collaboration with infection-control practitioners and occupational health staff.
Recommendations for designing and operating ventilation systems in correctional facilities have been published (48,49,74--76).
The multiple types of and conditions for use of ventilation systems in correctional-facility settings and the individual needs of these settings preclude provision of extensive guidance in this report.
Incremental improvements in environmental controls (e.g., increasing the removal efficiency of an existing filtration system in any area) are likely to lessen the potential for TB transmission from persons with unsuspected or undiagnosed TB.
This information should not be used in place of consultation with experts who can advise on ventilation system and air handling design, selection, installation, and maintenance.
Because environmental controls will fail if they are not properly operated and maintained, routine training and education of infection-control and maintenance staff are key components to a successful TB infection-control program.
Airborne Infection Isolation Rooms Inmates known or suspected of having TB disease should be placed in an AII room or AII cell that meets the design and operational criteria for airborne infection isolation described previously (71).
Inmates deemed infectious should remain in isolation until treatment or further evaluation has ensured that they are noninfectious.
Facilities without an on-site AII room should have a written plan for referring patients with suspected or confirmed TB to a facility that is equipped to isolate, evaluate, and treat TB patients.
New or renovated facilities should ensure that a sufficient number of AII rooms are available consistent with the facility risk assessment.
Under rare circumstances, if an AII room is not available and the immediate transfer of the inmate with suspected infectious TB is not possible, the inmate should be housed temporarily in a room that has been modified to prevent the escape of infectious aerosols outside the TB holding area.
The heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning (HVAC) system in this temporary TB holding area might have to be manipulated or augmented with auxiliary exhaust fans to create an inward flow of air that reduces the potential escape of infectious aerosols.
If possible, air from these areas should be exhausted directly to the outdoors.
If this is not feasible, the highest filtration efficiency compatible with the installed HVAC system should be used.
Because TB droplet nuclei are approximately 1--5 micrometers in size, filtration efficiency should be evaluated for particles in that size range.
Filter selection based on the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 52.2 Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value (MERV)--rating efficiency tables can help in this evaluation (77).
Secondary air cleaning techniques (portable air cleaners and UVGI) also can be used in these areas to increase effective air cleaning.
Local Exhaust Ventilation Aerosol-producing procedures should be performed in an area with a type of local exhaust ventilation that captures and removes airborne contaminants at or near their source without exposing persons in the area to infectious agents.
Local exhaust devices typically use hoods.
Two types of hoods are used: enclosing devices, in which the hood either partially or fully encloses the infectious source, and exterior devices, in which the infectious source is near but outside the hood.
Fully enclosed hoods, booths, or tents are always preferable to exterior devices because of their superior ability to prevent contaminants from escaping.
The time required to remove a given percentage of airborne particles from an enclosed space depends on 1) the ACH number, 2) the location of the ventilation inlet and outlet, and 3) the physical configuration of the room or booth.
The time interval required to ensure the proper level of airborne contaminant removal from enclosing devices varies according to ACH (Table 1).
For example, if an enclosing device operates at six ACH, and the air inlet and exhaust locations allow for good air mixing, approximately 46 minutes would be required to remove 99% of the contaminated air after the aerosol-producing procedure has ended.
Similarly, an additional 23 minutes (total time: 69 minutes) would be required to increase the removal efficiency to 99.9%.
Doubling the ventilation rate decreases the waiting time by half.
General Ventilation General ventilation is used to 1) dilute and remove contaminated air, 2) control the direction of airflow in a correctional facility setting, and 3) control airflow patterns in rooms.
Recommended ventilation rates for correctional facility settings are typically expressed in ACH.
Ventilation recommendations for selected areas in new or renovated correctional facility settings should be followed (Table 2).
The feasibility of achieving a specific ventilation rate depends on the construction and operational requirements of the ventilation system and might differ for retrofitted and newly constructed facilities.
The expense and effort of achieving a high ventilation rate might be reasonable for new construction but not be as feasible when retrofitting an existing setting.
Ventilation design guidance for correctional facilities and related areas has been published (78).
This design guidance includes specific ventilation recommendations regarding total ventilation, filtration efficiency, and environmental design parameters.
For minimum outdoor air supply recommendations, the guidance refers to ASHRAE Standard 62, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality.
In 2004, ASHRAE revised and renumbered this standard to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1 (74).
For areas within correctional facilities that are not intended to contain persons with infectious TB, the recommended minimum outdoor air supply rates should meet or exceed those recommended in ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2004 (74).
When risk analysis reveals an enhanced potential for undiagnosed cases of infectious TB, facility designers and owners may consider using higher supply rates of outdoor air (e.g., those recommended for areas within health-care facilities anticipated to contain infectious patients).
Minimum outdoor air supply recommendations for health-care facilities have been published (71,79).
Because correctional areas frequently will not have an exact equivalent area within the health-care environment, the designer or owner should identify an analogous health-care area from which to choose the outdoor air supply recommendation.
This selection should be made on the basis of occupant risk factors for TB, occupant activities, and occupant density within the area.
For example, the intake, holding, and processing area of a higher risk correctional facility might be considered analogous to the emergency waiting room area in a health-care facility.
In that case, the recommended outdoor air supply would be at least two ACH.
The direction of air movement relative to adjacent areas is necessary for the containment of contaminated air.
Air within a correctional facility should flow to minimize exposure of others within the building (Table 2).
For example, air inside an AII room or cell should flow from the corridor and air-supply grille across the worker, then across that patient, and finally out of the room.
To ensure that air is flowing from the corridor into an AII room or cell, smoke testing should be performed daily, even if the AII room or cell is equipped with a pressure-sensing device.
Air flow (supply air and exhaust air) should be measured at least annually and compared with the designed air flow rates to ensure that optimal directional air flow and air exchange rates are being maintained (Table 2).
Air Cleaning Methods Detailed information has been published regarding the selection, design, maintenance, and safety considerations associated with air cleaning methods (i.e., filtration and UVGI) (71).
Designers and end users should consult this information.
Air removed from areas likely to contain infectious aerosols (e.g., AII cells, sputum collection and other procedure rooms, and intake areas) should be exhausted directly to the outdoors to ensure that it cannot immediately reenter the building or pose a hazard to persons outside, in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
If discharging air to the outside is not feasible, HEPA filters should be used to clean the air before returning to the general ventilation system.
Such recirculation is acceptable only if the air is recirculated back into the same general area from which it originated.
For general population areas in which infectious aerosols are not anticipated but might be present (from persons with undiagnosed TB disease), total exhaust ventilation should be considered where and when the outdoor environmental conditions (temperature and humidity) are compatible with a single-pass system without undue energy or equipment costs.
When recirculating air from these areas, the minimum ASHRAE-recommended level of filtration is a MERV-8 filter (78).
However, CDC encourages selection and use of filters with higher MERV ratings to provide an incremental improvement in the protection afforded by this mechanism.
The filtration system should be designed to prevent filter by-pass and to allow filter leakage testing and safe filter changes.
A combination of air cleaning methods (e.g., MERV-rated filters and supplemental UVGI) may be used to increase effective air cleaning.
When used, UVGI should be applied in-duct (i.e., inside the ductwork of existing HVAC systems) or in the upper room of the area to be treated to ensure that organisms are inactivated.
Upper-air systems should be designed, installed, and monitored to ensure both sufficient irradiation in the upper room to inactivate M.
tuberculosis and safe levels of UVGI in the occupied space.
Environmental Control Maintenance To be most effective, environmental controls should be installed, operated, and maintained correctly.
Ongoing maintenance should be part of any written TB infection-control plan.
The plan should outline the responsibility and authority for maintenance and address staff training needs.
Failure to maintain environmental control systems properly has adversely impacted TB control and prevention efforts at facilities throughout the United States.
At one hospital, improperly functioning ventilation controls were believed to be a factor in the transmission of MDR TB disease to four persons (three patients and a correctional officer), three of whom died (80).
In three other multihospital studies evaluating the performance of AII rooms, failure to routinely monitor air-pressure differentials (whether manually or through use of continuous monitoring devices) resulted in a substantial percentage of the rooms being under positive pressure (81--84).
Correctional facilities should schedule routine preventive maintenance that covers all components of the ventilation systems (e.g., fans, filters, ducts, supply diffusers, and exhaust grilles) and any air-cleaning devices in use.
Performance monitoring should be conducted to verify that environmental controls are operating as designed.
Performance monitoring should include 1) directional airflow assessments using smoke tubes and use of pressure monitoring devices sensitive to pressures at 0.001 inch of water gauge and 2) measurement of supply and exhaust airflows to compare with recommended air change rates for the respective areas of the facility.
Records should be kept to document all preventive maintenance and repairs.
Standard procedures should be established to ensure that 1) maintenance staff notify infection-control personnel before performing maintenance on ventilation systems servicing inmate-care areas and 2) infection-control staff request assistance from maintenance personnel in checking the operational status of AII cells and local exhaust devices (e.g., booths, hoods, and tents) before use.
A protocol that is well written and followed will help to prevent unnecessary exposures of correctional facility staff and inmates to infectious aerosols.
Proper labeling of ventilation system components (e.g., ducts, fans, and filters) will help identify air-flow paths.
Clearly labeling which fan services a given area will help prevent accidental shutdowns (85).
In addition, provisions should be made for emergency power to avoid interruptions in the performance of essential environmental controls during a power failure.
Respiratory Protection Considerations for Selection of Respirators Respiratory protection is used when administrative (i.e., identification and isolation of infectious TB patients) and environmental controls alone have not reduced the risk for infection with M.
tuberculosis to an acceptable level.
The use of respiratory protection is most appropriate in specific settings and situations within correctional facilities.
For example, protection is warranted for inmates and facility staff when they enter AII rooms, transport infectious inmates, and participate in cough-inducing procedures.
Respirators should be selected from those approved by CDC/National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) under the provisions of Title 42, Part 84 of the Code of Federal Regulations (86).
Decisions regarding which respirator is appropriate for a particular situation and setting should be made on the basis of a risk assessment of the likelihood for TB transmission.** For correctional facilities, a CDC/NIOSH-approved N95 air-purifying respirator will provide adequate respiratory protection in the majority of situations that require the use of respirators.
If a higher level of respiratory protection is warranted, additional information on other classes of air-purifying respirators and powered air-purifying respirators (PAPRs) is available (71).
The overall effectiveness of respiratory protection is affected by 1) the level of respiratory protection selected (i.e., the assigned protection factor), 2) the fitting characteristics of the respirator model, 3) the care taken in donning the respirator, and 4) the effectiveness of the respiratory protection program, including fit testing and worker training.
Implementing a Respiratory Protection Program All facilities should develop, implement, and maintain a respiratory-protection program for health-care workers or other staff who use respiratory protection.
Respiratory-protection programs are required for facilities covered by the U.S.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) (71,87--89).
The key elements of a respiratory protection program include 1) assignment of responsibility, 2) training, and 3) fit testing (71,87,90,91).
All correctional facility staff who use respirators for protection against infection with M.
tuberculosis must participate in the facility's respiratory protection program (e.g., understand their responsibilities, receive training, receive medical clearance, and engage in fit testing) (71).
In addition to staff members, visitors to inmates with TB disease should be offered respirators to wear while in AII rooms and instructed on proper use.
Certain regular visitors (e.g., law enforcement officials, social workers, ministers and other religious representatives, and attorneys and other legal staff) might be there in an occupational capacity.
Each facility, regardless of TB risk classification (i.e., minimal or nonminimal), should develop a policy on the use of respirators by visitors of patients.
Precautions for Transporting Patients Between Correctional or Detention Facilities Recommended precautions to take when transporting patients between facilities have been published (71).
Patients with suspected or confirmed infectious TB disease should be transported in an ambulance whenever possible.
The ambulance ventilation system should be operated in the nonrecirculating mode and the maximum amount of outdoor air be provided to facilitate dilution.
If the vehicle has a rear exhaust fan, it should be used during transport.
If the vehicle is equipped with a supplemental recirculating ventilation unit that passes air through HEPA filters before returning it to the vehicle, this unit should be used to increase the number of ACH.
Airflow should be from the cab (i.e., front of vehicle) over the patient and out the rear exhaust fan.
If an ambulance is not used, the ventilation system for the vehicle should bring in as much outdoor air as possible, and the system should be set to nonrecirculating.
If possible, the cab should be physically isolated from the rest of the vehicle, and the patient should be placed in the rear seat.
Drivers or other persons who are transporting patients with suspected or confirmed infectious TB disease in an enclosed vehicle should wear at least an N95 disposable respirator.
If the patient has signs or symptoms of infectious TB disease (i.e., positive AFB sputum-smear result), consideration might be given to having the patient wear a surgical or procedure mask, if possible, during transport, in waiting areas, or when others are present.
Diagnosis and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection and Tuberculosis Disease The principles of diagnosis and treatment of LTBI and TB disease discussed in this section are guidelines and not meant to substitute for clinical experience and judgment.
Medical providers not familiar with the management of LTBI and TB disease should consult a person with expertise.
All facilities' local operations procedures should include plans for consultation with and referral to persons with expertise in TB and should include criteria delineating when consultation and referral are indicated.
Although the index of suspicion for TB disease varies by individual risk factors and prevalence of TB in the population served by the correctional facility, correctional facilities typically are considered higher-risk settings (see Screening).
Diagnostic tests for TB include the TST, QFT-G, chest radiography, and laboratory examination of sputum samples or other body tissues and fluids.
Persons exposed to inmates with TB disease might become latently infected with M.
tuberculosis depending on host immunity and the degree and duration of exposure.
Therefore, the treatment of persons with TB disease plays a key role in TB control by stopping transmission and preventing potentially infectious cases from occurring (92).
LTBI is an asymptomatic condition that can be diagnosed by the TST or QFT-G.
For example, a baseline TST result with 8 mm induration and a repeat TST result 1 year later with 18 mm induration would indicate a new infection.
However, a repeat TST result with 12 mm induration would not indicate a new infection.
When decisions are made for the diagnosis and treatment of LTBI and choosing the cut-off value for a positive reaction, certain risk factors (e.g., immunocompromising conditions and known contact with a TB patient) should be assessed.
Correctional facility staff and inmates who have TST indurations of 5--9 mm should be advised that their results might be an indication for treatment under certain conditions.
Special Considerations in Interpreting the TST Interpretation of the TST might be complicated by previous vaccination with BCG, anergy, and the "boosting" effect.
Detailed recommendations describing how the TST should be interpreted in relation to these possible confounders have been published (64,93).
Correctional Staff and Inmates who Refuse Testing for M.
tuberculosis Infection A correctional facility staff member or inmate who refuses testing for M.
tuberculosis infection should first be educated regarding the importance of routine screening of correctional facility staff and inmates.
If the person continues to refuse to have a TST, the option may be offered for the person to be tested using the QFT-G test (and vice versa).
The decision to offer an alternative test depends on the reason for refusal and should be consistent with the patient's underlying wishes (e.g., offering QFT-G in place of TST is acceptable if the patient objects to having injection of a substance but agrees to having blood drawn).
Interpreting the QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Test Data Interpretation of QFT-G data is initially performed electronically; an approved interpretation method is automatically performed by the software supplied by the manufacturer (Table 4) (58).
A complete description of the test's interpretation is included in the product insert.
Persons who have a positive QFT-G result should be referred for a medical and diagnostic evaluation.
On serial testing, a person with QFT-G results changing from negative to positive should be referred for medical and diagnostic evaluation and considered to be a QFT-G converter.
Risk factors (e.g., the facility's prevalence of TB disease and personal risk factors) should be assessed when making decisions about the diagnosis and treatment of LTBI.
Interpreting Chest Radiographs Persons with Suspected Pulmonary TB Multiple types of abnormalities demonstrated on chest radiographs are strongly suggestive of pulmonary TB disease, including upper-lobe infiltration, cavitation, and pleural effusion.
Infiltrates can be patchy or nodular and observed in the apical or subapical posterior upper lobes or superior segment of the lower lobes.
If radiographic or clinical findings are consistent with TB disease, further studies (e.g., medical evaluation, mycobacteriologic examinations of sputa or tissue, and comparison of current and prior chest radiographs) should be performed (65).
Persons with TB pleural effusions might have concurrent unsuspected pulmonary or laryngeal TB disease (94).
These patients should be considered infectious until pulmonary and laryngeal TB disease is excluded.
Patients with suspected extrapulmonary TB disease also should be suspected of having pulmonary TB until concomitant pulmonary disease is excluded.
The radiographic presentation of pulmonary TB in HIV-infected persons might be atypical.
Apical cavitary disease is less common among such patients than HIV-negative patients.
More common findings among HIV-infected persons are infiltrates in any lung zone, mediastinal or hilar adenopathy, or, in rare cases, a normal chest radiograph (65,95--97).
Persons with LTBI To exclude pulmonary TB disease, a chest radiograph is indicated for all persons in whom LTBI is diagnosed.
If chest radiographs do not indicate pulmonary TB, and no symptoms consistent with TB disease are present, persons with positive test results for TB infection should be considered for treatment for LTBI.
Persons with LTBI typically have normal chest radiographs, although they might have abnormalities suggestive of previous TB disease or other pulmonary conditions.
In certain patients with TB symptoms, pulmonary infiltrates might be apparent on chest computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging study but not on chest radiograph.
Previous, healed TB disease typically produces radiographic findings that differ from those associated with current TB disease.
These findings include nodules, fibrotic scars, calcified granulomas, and apical pleural thickening.
Nevertheless, a chest radiograph by itself cannot be used to distinguish between current and healed TB.
Nodules and fibrotic scars might contain slowly multiplying tubercle bacilli and pose substantial risk for progression to TB disease.
Calcified nodular lesions (i.e., calcified granulomas) and apical pleural thickening indicate lower risk for progression to TB disease (65).
Pregnant Women Because TB disease is dangerous to both the mother and the fetus, a pregnant woman who has a positive TST or QFT-G result or who is suspected of having TB disease should receive a chest radiograph (with shielding consistent with safety guidelines) as soon as feasible.
If symptoms or other high-risk conditions (e.g., HIV infection) are identified, a chest radiograph might have to be performed during the first trimester of pregnancy (64,65,98).
Specimen Collection Persons requiring smear- and culture-sputum examination should submit at least three sputum specimens (collected 8--24 hours apart, with at least one specimen collected in the early morning) (71,99).
Specimens should be collected in a sputum induction booth or in an AII room.
In resource-limited settings without environmental containment, collection is safer when performed outdoors.
Patients should be instructed how to produce an adequate sputum specimen, and a health-care professional should supervise and observe the collection of sputum, if possible (93).
For patients who are unable to produce an adequate sputum specimen, expectoration might be induced by inhalation of an aerosol of warm, hypertonic saline (71).
Laboratory Examination Detection of AFB in stained smears by microscopy can provide the first mycobacteriologic indication of TB disease.
A positive result for AFB in a sputum smear is predictive of increased infectiousness; however, negative AFB sputum-smear results do not exclude a diagnosis of TB disease if clinical suspicion is high.
In 2002, only 63% of U.S.
patients with reported positive sputum cultures had positive AFB sputum smears (100).
Although smears allow for the detection of mycobacteria, definitive identification, strain typing, and drug-susceptibility testing of M.
tuberculosis can be performed only via culture (93).
A culture of sputum or other clinical specimen that contains M.
tuberculosis provides a definitive diagnosis of TB disease.
In the majority of cases, identification of M.
tuberculosis and drug-susceptibility results are available within 28 days using recommended rapid methods (e.g., liquid culture and DNA probes).
A negative culture result is obtained in approximately 14% of patients with confirmed pulmonary TB disease (100) .
tuberculosis, but should not replace culture and drug-susceptibility testing in patients with suspected TB disease (88,101,102).
Recommendations for use and interpretation of NAA tests in the diagnosis of TB disease have been published previously (101,102).
Laboratories should report positive smear results within 24 hours of collection and positive cultures within 24 hours of the notation of the positive culture.
Drug-susceptibility tests should be performed on initial isolates from all patients to assist in the identification of an effective anti-TB regimen.
Drug-susceptibility tests should be repeated if 1) sputum specimens continue to be culture-positive 3 months after initiation of treatment or if 2) persons whose cultures had converted to negative subsequently revert to positive (65,93).
Treatment for LTBI Treatment for LTBI is essential to controlling and eliminating TB disease in the United States because it substantially reduces the risk that TB infection will progress to TB disease (23).
Certain persons are at high risk for developing TB disease once infected, and every effort should be made to begin these persons on a standard LTBI treatment regimen and to ensure that they complete the entire course of treatment for LTBI .
Before treatment for LTBI is started, TB disease should be ruled out by history, medical examination, chest radiography, and when indicated, mycobacteriologic studies.
If QFT-G is used, any correctional facility staff member or inmate with a positive QFT-G result should be considered for LTBI treatment.
Decisions regarding initiation of LTBI treatment should include consideration of the likelihood of the patient continuing and completing LTBI treatment under supervision if released from the facility before the treatment regimen is completed.
Other persons who might be poor candidates for treatment of LTBI include those with a previous history of liver injury or a history of excessive alcohol consumption; active hepatitis and end-stage liver disease are relative contraindications to the use of isoniazid or pyrazinamide for treatment of LTBI (64,103).
If the decision is made to treat such patients, baseline and follow-up monitoring of serum aminotransaminases are recommended.
Treatment Regimens for LTBI Standard regimens have been developed for the treatment of LTBI (Table 5).
The preferred treatment for LTBI is 9 months of daily isoniazid or biweekly dosing administered by DOT.
Although regimens are broadly applicable, modifications should be considered for certain populations (e.g., patients with HIV infection) and when drug resistance is suspected.
Reports of severe liver injury and death associated with the combination of rifampin and pyrazinamide for treatment of LTBI prompted ATS and CDC to revise previous recommendations.
These recommendations now state that this regimen typically should not be offered for the treatment of LTBI (64,103--107).
If the potential benefits substantially outweigh the demonstrated risk for severe liver injury and death associated with this regimen and the patient has no contraindications this regimen may be considered; a physician with experience treating LTBI and TB disease should be consulted before use of this regimen (103).
Clinicians should continue the appropriate use of rifampin and pyrazinamide in standard multidrug anti-TB regimens for the treatment of TB disease (65).
For all LTBI treatment regimens, nonadherence to intermittent dosing results in a larger proportion of total doses missed than daily dosing; therefore, all patients on intermittent treatment should receive DOT.
In addition, DOT should be used with daily dosing of LTBI treatment whenever feasible.
Patients with the highest priority for DOT are those at the highest risk for progression from LTBI to TB disease, including persons with HIV infection and persons who are recent contacts of infectious patients with pulmonary TB.
The majority of persons who are infected will have a positive TST result within 6 weeks of exposure; therefore, contacts of patients with drug-susceptible TB disease who have initial negative TSTs should be retested 8--10 weeks after the end of exposure to a patient with suspected or confirmed TB disease (108).
Persons with TB infection should be advised that they can be re-infected with M.
tuberculosis if re-exposed (109--111).
If they have not been treated previously, HIV-infected persons (regardless of TST result or previous LTBI treatment history), persons receiving immunosuppressive therapy (regardless of TST result or previous LTBI treatment history), and persons with a known previous (to current exposure) positive TST also should be considered for LTBI treatment.
Treatment of LTBI should not be started until a diagnosis of TB disease has been excluded.
If the presence of TB disease is uncertain because of an equivocal chest radiograph, a standard multidrug anti-TB therapy might be started and adjusted as necessary, depending on the results of sputum cultures, drug-susceptibility tests, and clinical response (65).
If cultures are obtained without initiating therapy for TB disease, treatment for LTBI should not be initiated until all cultures are reported as negative, which might take 6--8 weeks.
Contacts of Patients with Drug-Resistant TB Disease Treatment for LTBI caused by drug-resistant M.
tuberculosis organisms is complex and should be conducted in consultation with the local health department's TB control program and persons with expertise in the medical management of drug-resistant TB.
Often this will require waiting for results of susceptibility testing of the isolate from the presumed source patient.
Treatment should be guided by in vitro susceptibility test results from the isolate to which the patient was exposed (65,112,113).
Pretreatment Evaluation and Monitoring of Treatment Routine laboratory monitoring during treatment of LTBI is indicated only for patients with abnormal baseline tests and for persons at risk for hepatic disease.
Baseline laboratory testing is indicated only for persons infected with HIV, pregnant women, women in the immediate postpartum period (typically within 3 months of delivery), persons with a history of liver disease, persons who use alcohol regularly, and persons who have or who are at risk for chronic liver disease (64).
All patients should undergo clinical monitoring at least monthly.
This monitoring should include 1) a brief clinical assessment regarding the signs of hepatitis (i.e., nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, jaundice, and yellow or brown urine) and 2) education about the adverse effects of the drug(s) and the need for prompt cessation of treatment and clinical evaluation should adverse effects occur.
All aspects of the clinical encounter should be conducted in private and in the patient's primary language.
Severe adverse events associated with the administration of tuberculin antigen or treatment of LTBI or TB disease (e.g., those resulting in hospitalization or death) should be reported to MedWatch, FDA's Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting Program at telephone 800-FDA-1088, by facsimile at 800-FDA-0178, or via the Internet by sending Report Form 3500 (available at 
Instructions regarding the types of adverse events that should be reported are included on MedWatch report forms.
In addition, severe adverse effects associated with LTBI treatment should be reported to CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at telephone 404-639-8118.
Treatment for TB Disease A decision to initiate treatment (i.e., combination anti-TB chemotherapy) should be made on the basis of epidemiologic information; clinical, pathological, and radiographic findings; and the results of microscopic examination of AFB-stained sputum smears and cultures for mycobacteria.
A positive AFB-smear result provides strong inferential evidence for the diagnosis of TB, and combination chemotherapy should be initiated promptly unless other strong evidence against the diagnosis of TB disease is present (e.g., a negative NAA test).
If the diagnosis is confirmed by isolation of M.
tuberculosis or a positive NAA test, treatment should be continued until a standard course of therapy is completed.
Because as few as 50% of patients with positive sputum culture results for M.
tuberculosis will have negative sputum AFB-smear results (93), when initial AFB-smear results are negative, empiric therapy for TB is indicated if the clinical suspicion for TB disease is high.
Regardless of the decision to begin anti-TB treatment, diagnoses other than TB should be considered and appropriate evaluations undertaken in patients with negative AFB-smear results.
An adequate regimen for culture-negative pulmonary TB includes an additional 2 months of isoniazid and rifampin to complete 4 months of treatment (65).
If no clinical or radiographic response is observed by 2 months, treatment can be stopped, and other diagnoses (including inactive TB) should be considered.
If AFB-smear results are negative, and suspicion for TB disease is low, treatment can be deferred until the results of mycobacterial cultures are known and a comparison chest radiograph is available (typically at 2 months).
A person with TB expertise should be consulted for unusual or complex situations.
Individualized case management should be provided for all patients with TB disease (114--116).
In addition, patient management should be coordinated with officials of the local or state health department; suspected or confirmed TB cases should be reported to the local or state health department in accordance with laws and regulations.
Regimens for treating TB disease should contain multiple drugs to which the organisms are susceptible.
For persons with TB disease, treatment with a single drug can lead to the development of mycobacterial resistance to that drug.
Similarly, adding a single drug to a failing anti-TB regimen is not recommended because it can lead to resistance to the added drug (65).
The decision to stop therapy should be made on the basis of the number of doses taken within a maximum period (not simply a 6-month period) (65).
Persons with cavitary pulmonary TB disease and positive cultures of sputum specimens at the completion of 2 months of therapy should receive a longer, 7-month continuation phase of therapy (total duration: 9 months) because of the substantially higher rate of relapse among persons with this type of TB disease (65).
If interruptions in TB therapy occur, the decision should be made whether to restart a complete course of treatment or continue the regimen as originally intended.
In the majority of instances, the earlier the break in therapy and the longer its duration, the more serious the effect and the greater the need to restart the treatment from the beginning.
Continuous treatment is more important in the initial phase of therapy, when the bacillary burden is highest and the chance of developing drug resistance is greatest.
Although no evidence on which to base detailed recommendations exists, examples of practical algorithms for managing interruptions in therapy have been described previously (65).
For HIV-infected persons who are receiving antiretroviral therapy, TB treatment regimens might need to be altered.
Whenever possible, the care of persons with concomitant TB and HIV should be provided by or in consultation with persons with expertise in the management of both TB and HIV-related disease (65).
These patients should instead receive daily therapy during the intensive phase (i.e., first 2 months) and receive daily dosing or 3 doses per week by DOT during the continuation phase (117).
Antiretroviral therapy should not be withheld because the patient is being treated for TB if it is otherwise indicated.
Nevertheless, beginning both antiretroviral therapy and combination chemotherapy for TB at nearly the same time is not advisable.
Although data on which to base recommendations are limited, experience in the fields of HIV and TB suggests that treatment for TB should be initiated first.
Delaying the initiation of antiretroviral therapy until 4--8 weeks after starting anti-TB therapy is advantageous because it 1) better enables providers to ascribe a specific cause to a drug side effect, 2) decreases the severity of paradoxical reactions, and 3) decreases adherence challenges for the patient.
Until controlled studies have been conducted that evaluate the optimal time for starting antiretroviral therapy in patients with HIV infection and TB, this decision should be individualized on the basis of 1) the patient's initial response to treatment for TB, 2) the occurrence of side effects, and 3) the availability of multidrug antiretroviral therapy.
Because drug-drug interactions might be less frequent with use of rifabutin, substitution of rifabutin for rifampin might be indicated with certain antiretroviral medications.
Detailed information on TB treatment in HIV-infected persons has been published (65,107).
Updates are posted on the Internet as new findings become available (at   and 
Drug-susceptibility testing should be performed on all initial isolates from patients with TB disease.
When results from drug-susceptibility tests become available, the treatment regimen should be adjusted accordingly (65,113,114,118,119) (Tables 6 and 7).
Medical providers treating patients with drug-resistant TB disease should seek expert consultation and collaborate with the local health department for treatment decisions (65).
The primary determinant of treatment outcome is patient adherence to the drug regimen.
Thus, careful attention should be paid to measures designed to enable and foster adherence (65,119,120).
DOT is the preferred treatment strategy for all persons with TB disease and high-risk (e.g., HIV infected) persons with LTBI.
DOT should be used throughout the entire course of therapy whenever feasible.
Practitioners providing treatment to inmates should coordinate DOT with the local health department on an inmate's release.
The local health department also may be involved in monitoring therapy for correctional facility staff (65).
Challenges to Treatment Completion Achieving completion of treatment for LTBI or TB disease often is difficult, particularly in correctional facilities.
Movement of inmates both within and outside of correctional systems interferes with continuity of care and might lead to treatment default (121).
Comprehensive case management that includes discharge planning and coordination with other correctional facilities and health departments is needed to ensure completion of therapy for patients with TB disease and LTBI (42).
Multiple studies have demonstrated that inmates have relatively low LTBI treatment completion rates, particularly those in jails who are likely to be released before their therapy has been completed (14,28,40,122).
For a substantial proportion of inmates, referrals for follow-up after release are not made; of inmates whose appointments are scheduled, 40%--60% will not attend their first clinic visit (36,40).
Multiple interventions have been attempted to improve LTBI treatment completion in this population, including patient education while in jail, use of incentives, and use of DOT (61,122,123).
None of these strategies has had substantial success, although patient education and use of DOT have increased completion rates modestly in certain situations (61,122).
Active case management, as recommended for TB disease, should be considered as a next step in improving the completion rates for LTBI treatment (14,42).
Discharge Planning Correctional facilities should plan for the discharge of inmates and other detainees who have confirmed or suspected TB disease and those with LTBI who are at high risk for TB disease.
Such planning is crucial to effective local TB control efforts within the community to which released inmates return.
Facilities should ensure that their discharge plan is comprehensive and effective; the process should include 1) collaborating with public health and other community health-care professionals, 2) ensuring continuity of case-management, and 3) evaluating discharge-planning procedures and modifying procedures as needed to improve outcomes.
Collaboration Between Correction Facilities and Public Health Officials Postconfinement follow-up is a necessary component of TB-control efforts (35,124).
Effective discharge planning requires collaboration between corrections and medical staff (both intra- and inter-facility), and with public health and community-based service organizations (37).
Correctional facilities and public health departments should overcome multiple obstacles associated with postdetention follow-up (125), including short length of stay in a facility; unscheduled release or transfer; poorly defined or implemented channels of communication between correctional and public health authorities; limited resources (i.e., staff, equipment, and medications) available to provide recommended TB prevention, screening, treatment, and discharge-planning services; limited resources of the patient to make or keep appointments; high prevalence of mental illness and substance abuse among correctional patients; mistrust among inmates, which might result in the provision of aliases or incorrect contact or locating information; and reincarceration with disruption in treatment or termination of public benefits.
Collaboration is essential to ensure that TB-control efforts are undertaken in the most cost-effective manner.
Coordination between the correctional facility and the public health department maximizes the effectiveness of any efforts begun in a correctional facility (126), and linking released detainees to the public health-care system might improve post-release adherence (35) and reduce recidivism (127,128).
The types of relationships forged will depend on the assessment of the TB risk in the facility and the community.
Comprehensive Discharge Planning Comprehensive discharge planning is an important component of case management and is essential for ensuring the continuity of TB management and therapy among persons with TB disease and LTBI.
Following release, former inmates face housing, employment, and other crises concerning basic needs that often take priority over their health.
Multiple reports from the United States and other countries support the use of comprehensive discharge planning in TB control efforts (42,129,130).
Comprehensive discharge planning should be implemented for inmates with confirmed TB disease, suspected TB disease, and LTBI who also are at high risk for TB disease.
Discharge planning for persons with LTBI who are considered at high risk for developing TB disease is critical if treatment is begun in the correctional facility.
Starting all inmates at high risk on LTBI therapy might not be feasible while they are in the correctional facility, and the policy determining which risk groups to start on treatment should be made in collaboration with public health personnel.
Collaboration ensures appropriate communication and adequate resources for treatment after transfer to another facility or after release to the community.
At minimum, all inmates who have begun therapy for LTBI in a correctional facility should be given community contact information for follow-up and continuity of care.
Ideally, all inmates demonstrated to be infected with TB should be considered for therapy, and discharge planning to facilitate therapy should be comprehensive (124).
Because of high recidivism rates, discharge-planning efforts should begin in the detention phase and continue in the post-detention phase to ensure continuity of care as inmates move among different facilities and between correctional facilities and the community.
Components of Discharge Planning Initiate Discharge Planning Early To ensure uninterrupted treatment, discharge planning for inmates who receive a diagnosis of TB disease should begin as soon as possible after diagnosis (131).
Corrections or health services administrators (or their designees) should assign staff to notify the public health department of inmates receiving treatment for TB disease or LTBI.
Inmates with TB disease should be interviewed while still incarcerated (ideally by public health staff) to enable facility administrators to assess and plan for the appropriate support and referrals that will be needed after discharge (131).
Such personnel also should communicate with other facilities in the event of transfers of inmates.
Provide Case Management To ensure continuity of care, all correctional facilities should assign personnel (preferably health-care professionals) to serve as case managers.
These managers should be responsible for conducting discharge planning in the facility, which entails coordinating follow-up and communicating treatment histories with public health department and other health-care counterparts within the community (42).
In addition, case managers should employ strategies (e.g., mental-illness triage and referral, substance-abuse assessment and treatment, and prerelease appointments for medical care) to help former inmates meet basic survival needs on release.
The role of case manager should be assigned to a facility staff member who is capable of establishing good rapport with inmates; an effective case manager might be capable of persuading TB patients who are being released into the community to supply accurate information needed to ensure follow-up care.
The following factors should be considered when planning community discharge of an inmate receiving treatment for TB (132): Where will the ex-inmate reside after discharge (e.g., a permanent residence, a halfway house, or a shelter)?
Will family or other support be available?
Are cultural or language barriers present?
What kind of assistance will be needed (e.g., housing, social services, substance abuse services, mental health services, medical services, and HIV/AIDS services)?
Does the inmate understand the importance of follow-up and know how to access health-care services?
Obtain Detailed Contact Information To facilitate the process of locating former inmates, detailed information should be collected from all inmates with TB disease or LTBI for whom release is anticipated, including 1) names, addresses, and telephone numbers of friends, relatives, and landlords; 2) anticipated place of residence; and 3) areas typically frequented (e.g., restaurants, gyms, parks, and community centers) (61,133).
Inmates also should complete a release form authorizing health department personnel to contact worksites, family members, corrections staff (parole officers), and public and private treatment centers.
Inmates might give aliases or incorrect contact information because of fear of incrimination or deportation.
The use of an alias can be a barrier to continuity of care on reentry to a correctional facility.
Assess and Plan for Substance Abuse and Mental Health Treatment and for Other Social Services Substance abuse and other comorbid mental health conditions should be considered when developing a comprehensive discharge plan.
Addiction affects health care, medication adherence, housing opportunities, social relationships, and employment and might be the greatest barrier to continuity of care for TB (134).
Mental illness can be a barrier when community service providers have not been trained to interact with mentally ill patients.
Persons who are mentally ill might have difficulties keeping medical appointments.
Collaboration between corrections and health department personnel can facilitate the placement of former inmates in substance abuse or mental-health treatment programs to improve the likelihood of social stabilization and continuity of care (134,135).
Other social issues present barriers to released inmates.
Loss of health insurance benefits while incarcerated is common, and former inmates might be required to wait 30--365 days after release to become re-eligible for benefits (136,137).
Certain correctional facilities have agreements with local Social Security Administration field offices to facilitate swift reactivation of these benefits (138); creation of and training in the use of such agreements are encouraged.
Ideally, on entry into the correctional system, public benefits would be suspended, rather than terminated, and reactivated on release to eliminate gaps in coverage.
Application for public benefits and insurance should be incorporated into the discharge planning phase whenever possible.
If the inmate is likely to have limited access to care because of inability to pay for services on release, documentation should be made and another treatment mechanism identified (139).
Make Arrangements for Postrelease Follow-Up Before release, the inmate should be introduced (preferably face to face) to the employee from the community treatment agency who is responsible for community-based treatment and care (139).
When release dates are known, setting post-release appointments has been demonstrated to improve compliance (128,134,140).
Patients with TB disease should be given a supply of medication at discharge adequate to last until their next medical appointment.
Discharge planners can work with advocacy groups or private or government-funded programs to facilitate a safe, supported transition into the community (61).
Make Provisions for Unplanned Release and Unplanned Transfers Administrative procedures should be in place for unscheduled discharge of inmates who are being managed or treated for TB (36,141).
Reporting requirements for inmates with TB disease who are released or transferred to another facility vary among states and jurisdictions.
Despite mandatory notification policies, notification of public health officials varies from 87%--92% for inmates with TB disease (37,126) to only 17% for inmates with LTBI (36,37).
Correctional facility staff responsible for health department notification should relay information about all scheduled and unscheduled releases as it becomes available.
All TB information concerning persons who are being transferred to other correctional settings should be provided to the receiving facility.
In addition, inmates should be given a written summary or discharge card outlining their treatment plan to ensure continuity of care in case of unplanned and unanticipated release (131,142).
Inmates with TB disease who are eligible for release or transfer to another medical or correctional facility but continue to be infectious should remain in airborne precautions during and after transfer until noninfectious (132).
Provide Education and Counseling Patient education and documentation of education in the correctional facility is critical; multiple misconceptions persist among inmates and facility staff regarding means of transmission, differences between infection and disease, and methods of prevention and treatment for TB (143).
Persons receiving treatment should be counseled about the importance of adhering to the treatment plan (131) as a measure to improve postrelease follow-up (61).
Education should be delivered in the inmate's first preferred language and should be culturally sensitive with respect to ethnicity, sex, and age (135,144--147).
The inmate should be actively involved in all education sessions to encourage communication regarding previous transition experiences (e.g., the inmate's treatment motivations and any positive or negative experiences with specific providers) (141).
Inmates with LTBI who have not been started on therapy should be counseled on their risk factors, encouraged to visit the public health department, and provided with information about access to care after release.
DOT DOT for TB disease or LTBI in the correctional setting provides an opportunity for educating and counseling inmates and for establishing a routine of medication administration.
The effect, if any, of DOT on postrelease behavior has not been evaluated formally, but this practice might enhance adherence (122).
Community-Based Case Management after Release Case-management strategies begun in the correctional facility should be continued after release for former inmates with confirmed or suspected TB disease and those with LTBI who are at high risk for progression to TB disease.
Incentives and enablers (see Glossary) have improved adherence in incarcerated (35,60,61) and nonincarcerated (148,149) populations, and incentives combined with education and counseling optimize both short- and long-term adherence (40,60,61,150).
Case management that takes into account cultural differences and addresses not only TB-control matters but patient-defined needs (particularly among foreign-born persons) results in improved completion rates for LTBI therapy (145).
Case management by health department personnel after release is critical for continuity of care in the event of reincarceration.
The provision of follow-up information from local health departments and community-based organizations back to corrections staff is helpful in determining whether discharge planning is effective.
Discharge Planning for Immigration and Customs Enforcement Detainees Background Persons with TB disease detained by ICE officers are a potential public health threat because they typically are highly mobile, likely to leave and reenter the United States before completion of TB therapy, and at high risk for interrupting treatment (151).
Therefore, ensuring treatment of such detainees is important to the national strategy to eliminate TB in the United States (32,152).
In March 2003, the detention and removal functions of the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) were transferred from the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ) to the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
ICE is a division of DHS and detains approximately 200,000 persons annually while enforcing immigration law.
ICE detainees are screened for TB disease at service processing centers, staging facilities, contract detention facilities, and local jails.
Frequent transfers of ICE detainees between detention facilities are common.
ICE detention provides an opportunity to identify persons with confirmed and suspected TB disease and initiate treatment, if appropriate.
ICE detainees with confirmed or suspected TB disease receive treatment while they are in custody.
Presently, ICE does not deport detainees with known infectious TB, but such persons might be deported when noncontagious, even if treatment has not been completed or the final culture and susceptibility results are pending.
Discharge Planning for ICE Detainees In May 2004, ICE approved a policy to implement a short-term medical hold of persons with suspected or confirmed TB disease until continuity of care is arranged, which affords the ICE health services program the time needed to facilitate continuity of TB therapy arrangements before the patient's release or removal.
The ICE health services program seeks to enroll all persons with confirmed or suspected TB disease in programs that facilitate the continuity of TB therapy between countries.
These programs (e.g., CureTB, TB Net, and the U.S.-Mexico Binational Tuberculosis Referral and Case Management Project) facilitate TB referrals and follow-up for patients who move between the United States and other countries.
ICE field office directors may consider a stay of removal for persons with MDR TB or other complicated cases, so they can receive and complete treatment in the United States before removal.
In detention settings in which ICE detainees are held, facility staff who are responsible for TB communication should notify the ICE health services program of persons with confirmed or suspected TB disease.
Collaboration with detention facilities and local and state health departments will facilitate enrollment in the appropriate continuity of care program before transfer, release, or repatriation.
Correctional facility staff should identify these patients as ICE detainees when reporting TB cases to local and state health departments.
Evaluation of Discharge Planning Effectiveness Evaluation of a discharge planning program is critical and should begin with an assessment of existing programs and activities.
Program evaluation should be incorporated into the overall correctional quality improvement/assurance program (153).
Data from program evaluation studies should be documented and published to ensure that correctional facility and public health department staff are informed regarding effective measures and the effective translation of research findings into practice (123).
Evaluation of discharge planning should include measurements of adherence to therapy, cost savings (from unduplicated testing for persons with LTBI and completion of care without re-starts and extensions), recidivism, and the effectiveness of the collaboration between medical and corrections staff (both within and among facilities) and between correctional facilities and the public health department and other community agencies.
Contact Investigation Overview Multiple outbreaks of TB, including those involving MDR TB, have been reported in prisons and jails, particularly among HIV-infected inmates (17,22,45,154).
The identification of a potentially infectious case of TB in a correctional facility should always provoke a rapid response because of the potential for widespread TB transmission.
A prompt public health response in a confined setting can prevent a TB outbreak or contain one that has already begun (16,21,155).
The overall goal of a TB contact investigation is to interrupt transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
Ongoing transmission is prevented by 1) identifying, isolating, and treating persons with TB disease (source and secondary-case patients) and 2) identifying infected contacts of the source patient and secondary patients and providing them with a complete course of treatment for LTBI.
The contact investigation can serve to educate corrections staff and inmates about the risk, treatment, and prevention of TB in correctional facilities; inform staff and inmates regarding the importance of engaging in recommended TB-control practices and procedures within the correctional system; and emphasize the importance of completion of therapy for persons with TB disease and LTBI.
Because decisions involved in planning and prioritizing contact investigations in correctional facilities are seldom simple, a multidisciplinary team is preferable.
Health departments often can help correctional facilities in planning, implementing, and evaluating a TB contact investigation.
Data collection and management is an essential component of a successful investigation (21,36).
It requires a systematic approach to collecting, organizing, and analyzing TB-associated data.
As part of the contact investigation, all staff and investigation personnel should adopt a uniform approach.
Investigators should have a clear understanding of how a contact is defined and what constitutes an exposure (156--158).
Two correctional information systems are critical to the efficient conduct of a contact investigation: 1) an inmate medical record system containing TST results and other relevant information and 2) an inmate tracking system.
The lack of either system can lead to the unnecessary use of costly personnel time and medical evaluation resources (e.g., TSTs and chest radiographs).
Without these information systems, facilities also might be forced to implement costly lockdowns and mass screenings.
TB Transmission Factors TB transmission is determined by the characteristics of the source patient and exposed contacts; the circumstances surrounding the exposure itself also determine whether ongoing transmission will occur.
The following variables should be accounted for when planning each contact investigation.
Characteristics of the Source Patient Source patients who have either cavitation on chest radiograph or AFB smear-positive respiratory specimens are substantially more likely to transmit TB than persons who have neither characteristic (159--163) Delays in TB diagnosis in source patients have also been associated with an increased likelihood of transmission (164).
Nonetheless, substantial variability exists among the infectiousness of a given TB source patient.
Although AFB smear status, cavitary disease, and delayed diagnosis increase the likelihood of transmission, certain persons with these characteristics infect few persons, whereas others with none of these characteristics might infect multiple persons.
The best measure of the infectiousness of source patients is the documented infection rate among their contacts.
Characteristics of Persons Who Have Been Identified as Contacts Immunosuppression.
HIV infection is the greatest single risk factor for progression to TB disease.
Therefore, HIV-infected contacts should receive the highest priority for evaluation of TB infection, even if these persons had shorter duration of exposure than other contacts.
Persons receiving prolonged therapy with corticosteroids, chemotherapy for cancer, or other immunosuppressive agents (e.g., TNF-a antagonists) also should be considered high priority for investigation.
In addition, persons with end-stage renal disease and diabetes mellitus should be promptly evaluated, because these conditions are associated with compromised immune function.
If an inmate with TB identifies a young child as a community contact, a health department referral should be made immediately.
Exposure Characteristics Air volume.
The volume of air shared between an infectious TB patient and susceptible contacts is a major determinant of the likelihood of transmission.
Infectious particles become more widely distributed as air space increases, rendering them less likely to be inhaled.
Ventilation.
Ventilation is another key factor in the risk for airborne transmission of disease.
Airborne infectious particles disburse throughout an entire enclosed space; thus, if air is allowed to circulate from the room occupied by an infectious patient into other rooms or central corridors, their occupants also will be exposed.
Areas that have 1) confined air systems with little or no ventilation or 2) recirculated air without HEPA filtration have been associated with increased TB transmission.
Duration of exposure.
Although transmission of TB has occurred after brief exposure, the likelihood of infection after exposure to an infectious patient is associated with the frequency and duration of exposure.
However, defining what constitutes a substantial duration of exposure for any given contact is difficult.
When conducting a contact investigation, priority should be given first to inmates and employees who were most exposed to the source patient (21,154,162).
Decision to Initiate a Contact Investigation The decision to initiate a contact investigation for an inmate or detainee with possible TB is made on a case-by-case basis.
Each potential source patient's clinical presentation and opportunities for exposure should be evaluated.
Contact investigations should be conducted in the following circumstances: Suspected or confirmed pulmonary, laryngeal, or pleural TB with cavitary disease on chest radiograph or positive AFB smears (sputum or other respiratory specimens).
If the sputum smear is positive and the NAA is negative, TB is unlikely, and a contact investigation typically can be deferred.
A negative NAA on an AFB-smear-negative specimen, however, should not influence decisions about the contact investigation (102).
Suspected or confirmed pulmonary (noncavitary) or pleural TB with negative AFB smears (sputum or other respiratory specimens) and a decision has been made to initiate TB treatment.
A more limited initial investigation may be conducted for smear-negative cases.
Contact investigations typically are not indicated for extrapulmonary TB cases (except for laryngeal and pleural TB), unless pulmonary involvement is also diagnosed.
The decision as to whether the facility should conduct a contact investigation should be guided by the probability that an inmate or employee has pulmonary TB.
Sputum results for AFB serve as a major determinant (165).
However, in certain patients with pulmonary TB, collecting sputum samples is not feasible.
In this circumstance, other types of respiratory specimens (e.g., those from bronchoscopy) may be collected for AFB smear and mycobacterial culture.
Principles for Conducting the Contact Investigation No simple formula has been devised for deciding which contacts to screen in a correctional facility contact investigation.
However, the investigation should be guided by the following basic principles: Identified contacts should be stratified by their duration and intensity of exposure to the source patient.
HIV-infected contacts should be classified as the highest priority group for screening and initiation of LTBI therapy, regardless of duration and intensity of exposure.
Identified groups of contacts with the greatest degree of exposure should be screened immediately, followed by repeat testing at 8--10 weeks if the initial TST or QFT-G is negative.
The infection rate should be calculated to assess the level of TB transmission.
Decisions to expand the contact investigation to groups with less exposure should be made on the basis of the calculated infection rate.
If no evidence of transmission is observed, the investigation should not be expanded.
If transmission is occurring, the investigation should be expanded incrementally to groups with less exposure.
When the group screened shows minimal or no evidence of transmission, the contact investigation should not be expanded further.
Corrections and medical staff should be included in the contact investigation depending on their exposure risks.
Ideally, decisions about structuring the contact investigation should be made collaboratively with the contact investigation team that includes input from the state or local health department.
For certain investigations, screening a convenience sample before expanding the investigation is prudent.
For example, in jail investigations, multiple contacts might already have been released, rendering those who remain incarcerated the only available group for screening.
If a substantial number of high priority contacts cannot be evaluated fully, a wider contact investigation should be considered.
The investigation should focus on identifying the contacts at highest risk for transmission, screening them completely, and providing a full course of LTBI treatment for persons demonstrated to be infected.
In general, because wide-scale investigations divert attention away from the high priority activities necessary to interrupt transmission in the facility, mass screening of all persons who had any contact with the source patient should be avoided (166).
Rarely is a person so infectious that wide-scale expansion of the contact investigation is necessary or beneficial.
Medical Evaluation of Contacts Appropriate medical evaluation depends on both the immunologic status (e.g., HIV infection) of the contact and previous TST or QFT-G results.
Adequate knowledge of these data is possible only through use of a medical record system that is complete, up-to-date, and reliable with regard to TST or QFT-G status, testing date, and documentation of the reading in millimeters (for TST).
Without an adequate medical record system (and therefore definitive information regarding prior TST or QFT-G results), the true infection and transmission rates cannot be determined.
The lack of such information is likely to lead to unnecessary expansion of the contact investigation.
All Contacts All contacts should be interviewed for symptoms of TB disease using a standard symptom questionnaire.
Symptomatic contacts should receive a chest radiograph and a complete medical evaluation by a physician, regardless of TST or QFT-G status; they also should be isolated appropriately (i.e., inmates should be placed in an AII room if infectious TB is suspected by chest radiograph or clinical findings; staff should not be permitted to work).†† HIV testing should be considered for all contacts whose HIV status is unknown.
Inmates with Documented Previous Positive TST or QFT-G results Inmates who are asymptomatic, HIV-negative, and have previous positive TST or QFT-G results need no further follow-up, other than consideration for "routine" treatment of LTBI, if not completed in the past.
However, if such an inmate has any signs or symptoms suggestive of TB, further evaluation should be conducted (e.g., a chest radiograph for persons with respiratory symptoms).
HIV-Infected Inmates HIV-infected contacts should be interviewed for symptoms, have a TST or QFT-G and chest radiograph performed, and initiate a complete course of treatment for LTBI (once TB disease has been ruled out), regardless of the TST or QFT-G result.
Treatment should be initiated even for persons with a history of previous treatment for LTBI or TB disease because of the possibility of re-infection.
Those with a history of a negative TST or QFT-G should have a TST or QFT-G placed at baseline and again in 8--10 weeks.
The results of the TST or QFT-G will not affect treatment decisions, but they will provide important information for the contact investigation.
Anergy testing is not recommended (52).
Previous TST-Negative or QFT-G--Negative Inmates (HIV Negative) Mandatory tuberculin skin or QFT-G testing of all previously TST- or QFT-G--negative inmate contacts should be conducted at baseline (unless previously tested within 1--3 months of exposure).
Testing should be repeated 8--10 weeks from the most recent contact with the source patient (58,167).
TST and QFT-G Converters Persons whose TSTs or QFT-Gs convert or those with newly documented, positive TST or QFT-G results should be offered treatment for LTBI unless medically contraindicated.
If inmate contacts refuse medically indicated treatment for LTBI, they should be monitored regularly for symptoms.
Certain facilities have chosen to monitor HIV-infected contacts with follow-up chest radiographs.
Contact Investigation Stepwise Procedures The following steps are involved in conducting a contact investigation and might overlap in time.
As soon as a person is confirmed or suspected of having TB disease, the case should be reported to the appropriate local health authorities and contacts promptly evaluated.
Notify correctional management officials.
Identification of TB in an inmate or facility staff member can be alarming for other inmates, corrections staff, and the community.
The administrator should be notified through appropriate chain of command that a case of TB has been identified in the institution so that appropriate briefing and educational efforts can be initiated.
Conduct a source patient chart review.
The following data (with specific dates) should be collected: 1) history of previous exposure to TB, 2) history of TB symptoms (e.g., cough, fever, and night sweats), 3) weight history (particularly unexplained weight loss), 4) chest radiograph reports, 5) previous TST or QFT-G results, 6) mycobacteriology results (e.g., AFB smears, cultures, and susceptibilities), 7) NAA test results, 8) HIV status, and 9) other medical risk factors.
Interview the source patient.
A chart review and case interview should be accomplished within 1 working day for persons with AFB smear-positive respiratory specimens or cavitation on chest radiograph and within 3 days for all other persons (165).
Source patients should be asked concerning TB symptom history, with a particular focus on duration of cough.
Source patients also should be asked about where they conduct their daily activities.
Persons with confirmed or suspected TB who were detained during the course of the infectious period should be interviewed regarding potential community contacts, particularly HIV-infected persons and young children; information regarding the location of community contacts also should be obtained.
Source patients should be questioned regarding contacts during a second interview conducted 7--14 days after the first.
Define the infectious period.
Defining the infectious period for a source patient helps investigators determine how far back to go when investigating potential contacts.
The infectious period is typically defined as 12 weeks before TB diagnosis or onset of cough (whichever is longer).
If a patient has no TB symptoms, is AFB smear negative, and has a noncavitary chest radiograph, the presumed infectious period can be reduced to 4 weeks before the date of first positive finding consistent with TB.
If the contact investigation reveals that TB transmission occurred throughout the identified infectious period, the period for contact investigation might need to be expanded beyond 12 weeks.
Convene the contact investigation team.
After TB is diagnosed, a team of professionals (e.g., infection-control, medical, nursing, custody, and local public health personnel) should be convened and charged with planning the contact investigation.
A team leader should be identified and the roles and responsibilities of each team member defined, and a schedule of regular meetings (documented formally with written minutes) should be established.
In addition, a communications plan and a plan for handling contact investigation data should be developed.
Update correctional management officials.
Administrative personnel should be kept apprised of the strategy, process, and action steps involved in conducting the contact investigation.
Obtain source case inmate traffic history.
The dates and locations of the source patient's housing during the infectious period and information regarding employment and education should be obtained.
Groups of contacts should be prioritized according to duration of exposure and immune status.
Tour exposure sites.
A tour should be conducted of each place the source patient lived, worked, or went to school during the infectious period.
In addition, information should be obtained regarding any correctional facility that has housed the source patient during the infectious period, including 1) the number of inmates who are housed together at one time, 2) the housing arrangement (e.g., cells versus dorms), 3) the general size of the air space, 4) the basics of the ventilation system (e.g., whether air is recirculated), 5) the pattern of daily inmate movement (e.g., when eating, working, and recreating), and 6) the availability of data on other inmates housed at the same time as the source patient.
The assistance of a facility engineer often is necessary to help characterize the ventilation system and airflow direction within a correctional facility.
Prioritize contacts.
Contacts should be grouped according to duration and intensity of exposure.
Persons with the most exposure and HIV-infected or other immunosuppressed contacts (regardless of duration of exposure) are considered highest priority.
Because progression from exposure to death can be rapid among HIV-infected persons in a facility in which HIV-infected persons are housed or congregated separately, the entire group should be given high priority (45).
Develop contact lists.
Rosters of inmate and employee contacts from each location should be obtained and their current location investigated.
Lists of exposed contacts should be generated and grouped according to current location (e.g., still incarcerated, released, and transferred).
Conduct a medical record review on each high-priority contact.
TST or QFT-G status, chest radiograph history, history of treatment for LTBI, HIV status, and other high-risk medical conditions should be recorded.
Particular attention should be given to weight history and previous visits to facility health-care professionals for respiratory symptoms.
Dates should be carefully recorded.
Evaluate HIV-infected contacts for TB disease and LTBI promptly.
LTBI therapy should be initiated promptly among these persons once TB disease has been excluded.
Place and read initial TSTs or perform QFT-Gs on eligible contacts.
Tuberculin skin or QFT-G testing of all previously TST- or QFT-G--negative inmate contacts should be conducted at baseline (unless previously tested within 1--3 months of exposure).
Referrals should be made for persons who have been released or transferred before receiving their initial TST or QFT-G.
Make referrals for contact evaluation.
Referrals should be made to the local health department for inmate contacts of the source case who have been released or transferred to another facility.
Additionally, family members or frequent visitors of the source patient should be investigated by the health department; follow-up TST or QFT-G results for a substantial percentage of contacts of released inmates have been obtained on re-arrest by matching the list of exposed contacts with the jail intake TST or QFT-G registry (21).
Calculate the infection rate and determine the need to expand the investigation.
To calculate the infection rate, the total number of inmates whose TST or QFT-G has converted from negative to positive should be divided by the total number with a TST placed and read or QFT-G performed.
Persons with a history of a prior positive TST or QFT-G should be excluded.
The infection rate should be calculated by exposure site.
In addition, if using tuberculin skin testing, separately calculating the rate for U.S.- versus foreign-born inmates might provide useful data (33); foreign-born contacts often have a history of BCG vaccination, and a TST "conversion" among these contacts might represent a vaccination-associated "booster" TST response (168).
The contact investigation team should analyze the infection rate(s) and decide whether to expand the investigation.
Place and read follow-up TSTs or perform follow-up QFT-Gs.
Follow-up TSTs or QFT-Gs for contacts who had a negative TST or QFT-G result on initial testing should be placed 8--10 weeks after exposure to the source patient has ended.
Referrals should be made for persons who have been released or transferred and need a follow-up TST or QFT-G.
Determine the infection/transmission rate.
The infection rate from the second round of testing should be calculated.
In addition, the need to expand the investigation should be determined.
Write a summary report.
The summary report should briefly describe the circumstances of the investigation, how it was conducted, the results of the investigation (e.g., the number of secondary cases identified and the infection and transmission rates), and any special interventions required (including follow-up plans).
The report should be distributed to corrections administrators and the local health department.
Tuberculosis Training and Education of Correctional Workers and Inmates TB training and education of correctional workers and other persons associated with any correctional facility (e.g., volunteers and inmates) can help lower the risk for TB transmission and disease.
To ensure the effectiveness of such training and education, multiple factors should be considered.
First, correctional facilities and local or state health departments should collaborate when providing TB training and education to correctional workers; specifically, facilities should routinely work with health department staff to provide them with corrections-specific training.
Second, routine TB education should be provided for all persons who spend significant time in the facility, and additional training should be given to any employee who will interact with persons at risk for TB.
The ideal amount of training time and information varies by the local risk for TB transmission and by the job descriptions and characteristics of those needing training.
Finally, TB training and education efforts and other TB-related events should be documented to ensure that these programs can be evaluated and updated.
Training and Education in Correctional Facilities Correctional workers, volunteers, inmates, and other persons spending significant time in correctional facilities should receive training and education regarding M.
tuberculosis as part of in-facility, preservice training or orientation.
Training should be provided at least annually thereafter.
In-facility training and education efforts can build on existing sources of TB-related preservice education and training.
Regional and national professional associations frequently provide ongoing education regarding TB and infection control, and national correctional health-care conferences and courses for medical professionals working in correctional facilities regularly include TB in their curricula.
TB-associated training should be designed to meet the needs of correctional workers with diverse job descriptions.
In multiple facilities and for multiple categories of correctional workers, appropriate TB training might be accomplished through incorporation of the topic into other annual employee trainings (e.g., bloodborne pathogen training); more extensive or topic-specific training should be developed for persons who are specifically involved in TB control.
Facilities that use inmates to provide peer-to-peer TB-education programs should provide similarly tailored training to any participating inmates.
Facilities located in areas with a high TB prevalence or whose inmates have lived in such areas might need to increase the time and resources dedicated to TB training.
The correctional facility health services director or designee (i.e., the staff member responsible for a facility's TB control program) should collaborate with the local public health department to establish TB education and training activities.
In addition, these staff members routinely should evaluate and update the facility's TB training and education program in collaboration with the public health sector.
External changes in the prevalence of TB in the community, changes in state or local public health policies, or changes in national TB control guidelines might necessitate the conduct of regular educational updates for staff.
Each facility should maintain training records to monitor correctional worker training and education.
Records of TB-related adverse events (e.g., documented in-facility transmission) also should be monitored as a means of evaluating training and education outcomes.
The circumstances of adverse events should be investigated, and the possibility of enhanced or altered training should be considered as an appropriate intervention.
Initial Training and Education for all Correctional Workers Although the level and detail of any employee's initial TB training and education session will vary according to staff members' job responsibilities, the following components should be included for all correctional workers, regardless of job function: communication regarding the basic concepts of M.
tuberculosis transmission, signs, symptoms, diagnosis (including the difference between LTBI and TB disease), and prevention; provision of basic information regarding the importance of following up on inmates or correctional workers demonstrating signs or symptoms of TB disease; need for initiation of airborne precautions of inmates with suspected or confirmed TB disease; review of the policies and indications for discontinuing AII precautions; discussion of basic principles of treatment for TB disease and LTBI; and discussion regarding TB disease in immunocompromised persons.§§ Required Training for Correctional Workers in Facilities with AII Rooms Correctional workers in facilities equipped with AII rooms also should be provided clear guidelines regarding the identification and containment of persons with TB disease.
Enhanced Training and Education for Correctional Workers in High-Risk Facilities Correctional workers in facilities with a high risk for TB transmission should receive enhanced and more frequent training and education concerning the signs and symptoms of TB disease, transmission of TB disease, and TB infection-control policies (including instruction on and location of the facility's written infection-control policies and procedures, exposure control plan, and respiratory protection program).
If a contact investigation is being conducted because of suspected or confirmed infectious TB, the health department or designated health provider should educate facility correctional workers in all aspects of the investigation.
Education should include information concerning contact investigation guidelines (165), TB transmission, the method used to determine a contact's risk for infection and prioritization for evaluation and treatment, the noninfectiousness of inmates and correctional workers with LTBI, the noninfectiousness of persons with TB disease who have responded to therapy and have submitted three AFB negative sputum-smear results, and patient confidentiality issues.
Facility staff members who are responsible for TB-control activities should stay informed regarding current TB trends and treatment options.
Conference attendance, participation in professional programs, and other off-site training are effective supplemental training strategies for correctional worker trainers and facility medical and infection-control staff.
Training and Education of Public Health Department Staff State and local health department staff providing consultation or direct services to a correctional facility (including those who act as liaisons) should receive training and education regarding the unique aspects of health care and TB control in the correctional facility setting.
Correctional facility administrators, contracted correctional facility health-care professionals, and health department staff should collaborate to develop an appropriate training program.
The use of self-study and other educational materials should be encouraged as a supplement to training.
Certain TB training resources also can be accessed on the Internet (Appendix A).
Education and training of health department staff should cover (but not be limited to) the following topics: TB-related roles of correctional facility and health department staff; methods of effectively collaborating with correctional facilities; differences between and among jails, prisons, and other forms of detention facilities; correctional culture and the importance of respecting the mission and purpose (i.e., custody) of correctional facilities and correctional workers; the health department's role in the discharge of inmates (see Discharge Planning); and the effect of the custody and movement of foreign detainees on local facilities.
Training and Education of Inmates Inmates should receive education from facility health-care professionals or other appropriately trained workers managing the screening or treatment process.
Education and training should be appropriate in terms of the education level and language of the trainees.
The following components should be incorporated into inmate training and education programs: general TB information (provided either at the time of admission or when being screened for TB); the meaning of a positive TST or QFT-G result and treatment options for LTBI; comprehensive TB education, including the infectiousness of and treatment for inmates being confined with suspected or confirmed TB disease; and the importance of completing treatment for inmates with LTBI or TB disease.
Program Evaluation Six steps should be followed to ensure successful monitoring and evaluation of a TB-prevention and -control program: identifying collaborators, describing the TB-control program, focusing the evaluation to assess TB risk and performance, collecting and organizing data, analyzing data and forming conclusions, and using the information to improve the TB program (169).
The purpose of program evaluation is to improve accountability, enable ongoing learning and problem-solving, and identify opportunities for improvement.
The evaluation process should be designed to provide information relevant to the stakeholders.
Measures should be simple and the communication of results meaningful.
Identifying Collaborators TB control requires the collaboration of correctional systems, health departments, and other community agencies; effective program evaluation also involves teamwork.
Early engagement of program staff and internal and external collaborators (including custody staff) helps ensure that the evaluation will yield the information that is most useful to stakeholders.
Such engagement also promotes mutual cooperation for constructive change.
Although multiple parties might be involved, each TB program should have a single person designated to be responsible for data quality and program evaluation.
Designating staff for these activities helps ensure that continuity and accountability are maintained.
Describing the Program Underlying a useful evaluation is an understanding of how the TB program currently operates within the context of the facility.
Evaluators should be knowledgeable about program goals and objectives, strategies, expected program-associated results, and the way in which the program fits into the larger organization and community.
This information can typically be obtained by reviewing a facility's existing TB-control plan.
In addition, all stakeholders should agree on program goals before the evaluation is undertaken (169).
Focusing the Evaluation to Assess TB Risk and Performance Risk Assessment Each facility should assess its level of TB risk at least annually (71).
The TB risk assessment (see Screening) determines the types and levels of administrative and environmental controls needed.
Assessment of a facility's risk level includes analysis of disease burden and facility transmission, which can be conducted by examining the following indicators: Burden of disease --- community rates of TB disease (including other communities from which substantial numbers of inmates come; these data are available from local health departments), --- the number of cases of TB disease in the facility during the preceding year, and --- the number and percentage of inmates and staff with LTBI; and Facility transmission --- the number and percentage of staff and inmates whose tests for TB infection converted and the reasons for the conversion, --- the number of TB exposure incidents (see Contact Investigation), and --- evidence of person-to-person transmission.
Conversion rates (as determined by annual testing) for staff and inmates should be determined and tracked over time to monitor for unsuspected transmission in the facility.
In larger facilities, conversion rates for staff assigned to areas that might place them at higher risk for TB (e.g., booking and holding areas, day rooms, libraries, enclosed recreation areas, medical and dental areas, and transport vehicles) should be calculated and tracked.
Staff should analyze contributing factors to TB exposure and transmission and plan for corrective intervention, as appropriate.
The following performance measures should be considered when determining risk within all correctional facilities, including those that function as a contract facility within a larger correctional system: the timeliness with which patients with suspected TB disease are detected, isolated, and evaluated (see Performance Measurement for Improving Quality); and other factors (e.g., the total number of patients with TB housed in the facility and the number of persons housed in the facility who are risk for TB) that will help determine the controls needed (71).
Performance Measurement for Improving Quality The risk-assessment process enables the monitoring of risk for TB transmission (the key program indicator) and helps guide the focus and intensity of ongoing performance measurement and monitoring.
Facilities at higher risk (e.g., those with cases of TB disease) benefit more from broader investigation of performance than facilities at lower risk.
Risk-assessment findings should help guide the development of simple process performance measures for each pertinent area of TB prevention and control.
These performance measures can then be used to monitor program implementation and intermediate outcomes.
Treatment completion and continuity of care are key performance indicators.
Each facility should have goals against which to measure performance in these areas (e.g., 100% of patients with TB disease will have documented treatment completion or, in the case of release or transfer, continuity of treatment on release).
For LTBI, goals might be that 100% of patients released during treatment will have a documented referral for continuity of care in the community and that 90% of these patients will follow-up on their referral.
The following are examples of possible performance measures that can be useful as part of a TB program evaluation, depending on the level of risk: Timeliness of screening and isolation --- time from inmate admission to testing for TB infection, --- time from TB testing to obtaining test results, --- time from positive TB infection test results to obtaining a chest radiograph, --- time from identification of a suspect TB patient (either through symptoms or abnormal chest radiograph) to placement in an AII room, --- time from sputum collection to receipt of results, and --- time from suspicious result (either via radiograph, smear-positive result, or smear-negative/culture-positive result) to initiation of contact investigation; Treatment --- the number and percentage of patients with LTBI who initiated treatment and the percentage of persons who completed the prescribed treatment for LTBI (excluding those released from or transferred out of the facility), --- the number and percentage of persons in whom TB disease was diagnosed who completed the prescribed treatment regimen (excluding those released from or transferred out of the facility), and --- the reasons for treatment interruption among persons who stop therapy; and Continuity of care¶¶ --- the number and percentage of patients released before completing treatment for TB disease or LTBI who had documented community appointments (or referrals) for continuity of care, and --- the number and percentage of patients with confirmed and suspected TB disease who kept their first medical appointment in the community.
Other pertinent performance measures for correctional facilities might include the adherence rates among inmates and staff who should undergo TB testing, the percentage of staff receiving TB education and training annually, and the percentage of inmates receiving TB education.
Assessment of Collaboration On an annual basis, each program also should evaluate its success in working collaboratively with local and state public health departments in each area of TB control (e.g., screening, containment, and assessment).
Correctional systems should meet with their respective public health departments each year to assess risk, update TB policies and procedures, and assess compliance regarding environmental control and respiratory protection recommendations (see Environmental Controls and Respiratory Protection).
Correctional systems also should assess collaboration with other agencies to which the inmates are released.
Collecting and Organizing Data Data Sources As part of quality assessment, all facilities that house persons with confirmed or suspected TB disease should conduct periodic reviews of medical records for these patients and for a sample of patients with LTBI.
In collaboration with the public health department, the review should be conducted at least annually in facilities with any confirmed or suspected cases of TB (including low-risk facilities) and quarterly in higher-risk facilities with numerous cases.
The record review should compare actual performance against time standards, protocols, and goals for TB activities and outcomes (see Performance Measures for Improving Quality).
Multiple tools are available for data collection (Appendix B) (131).
Medical records should contain information regarding TB history and risk factors, treatment, and all other interventions and dates to enable performance to be monitored.
Other sources of data include log books, interviews with staff, and observations.
Quality controls for TST placement and reading should be checked at least annually.
The quality of the data used for calculating performance also should be verified.
Information Infrastructure Effective program monitoring and evaluation is made possible through the reliable collection of valid data and through analysis of these data.
Health-care professionals responsible for the prevention and control of TB within a correctional facility should have access to complete medical records and a database of essential TB-related activity and measurements.
A retrievable aggregate record system is essential for tracking all inmates and for assessing the status of persons who have TB disease and LTBI, particularly in large jail and prison systems in which inmates are transferred frequently from one facility or unit to another.
This record system should maintain at minimum current information about the location, screening results, treatment status, and degree of infectiousness of these persons.
In addition to facilitating case management, such a record system provides facilities with the information necessary for conducting annual TB risk assessments, monitoring TB trends, measuring performance, and assessing the effectiveness of overall TB control efforts.
Information contained in health records should always be kept confidential; all staff members involved in program evaluation should receive training to maintain the confidentiality of patient information.
Although medical databases can be maintained manually, electronic databases provide additional benefits by enabling a facility to 1) better track inmates for testing and case management, 2) access information regarding tests for TB infection, 3) share medical information regarding transferred inmates with other facilities, 4) link with the local health department, and 5) measure the effectiveness of TB-control efforts.
Analyzing Data and Drawing Conclusions In a multifacility correctional system, evaluation data should be compiled for each facility separately and in aggregate.
Data should be analyzed against standards, which can be defined externally (e.g., by national organizations or CDC-defined standards) or internally as established by the program collaborators (170).
Once analyzed, conclusions should be drawn from the data and recommendations for program improvement developed.
The evaluation and recommendations should be shared with program staff, administrators, and partners, including the local public health department.
Using Information to Improve the TB Program The final step in the evaluation process is to implement the recommendations to improve the TB program.
Program staff should use data to identify and remove barriers to improving performance, and administrators should make necessary revisions to policies or procedures.
Because the evaluation process is cyclical, assessing whether recommendations have been implemented and whether outcomes are improved is crucial.
Existing data can be used to clearly demonstrate the effects of implemented interventions.
Collaboration and Responsibilities The management of TB from the time an inmate is suspected of having the disease until treatment is complete presents multiple opportunities for collaboration between correctional facilities and the public health department.
For example, public health agencies can partner with correctional facilities in TB screening and treatment activities.
In a study of 20 urban jail systems and their respective public health departments, only 35% reported having collaborated effectively when conducting TB-prevention and -control activities (38).
Formal organizational mechanisms (e.g., designated liaisons, regular meetings, health department TB program staff providing on-site services, and written agreements) are associated with more effective collaboration between correctional facilities and health departments (37).
Correctional facilities and health departments should each designate liaisons for TB-associated efforts.
Liaisons should serve as a familiar and accessible communication link between collaborating entities.
The duty of liaison at the correctional facility should be assigned to the person responsible for TB control or to another staff member familiar with TB control and patient management at the facility.
Regular meetings between correctional facilities and health departments are important to establish communication and collaboration on TB-related issues (37,171).
Jurisdictions with regularly scheduled meetings between jails and public health staff are 13 times more likely to report having highly effective collaboration than jurisdictions that have not established such meetings (37).
For example, in Florida, the state TB-control program and corrections health officials hold quarterly coordination meetings on TB issues and regularly scheduled collaborative TB case-review conferences (171), activities that have encouraged communication between facilities and local health departments.
The presence of health department staff in correctional facilities can help promote more effective collaboration (37,171).
Functions provided by such personnel within the correctional facility setting include screening, surveillance, education and training, contact investigation, and follow-up after release (171).
For example, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene personnel assigned to the Rikers Island jail interview inmates, monitor their care, suggest interventions or changes, and work with the jail to determine discharge planning needs for continuity of care in the community.
Data access links are available on site that enable health department personnel to promptly inform corrections staff regarding previous completed therapy, incomplete work-up or therapy, sputum-smear results, culture and drug-susceptibility data, and ongoing treatment for TB cases and suspects.
These on-site access links diminish the time spent in AII rooms and decrease the time required for patient work-up by providing confirmatory historical documentation.
Correctional facilities and health departments should work together to agree on and delineate their respective roles and responsibilities.
Establishing clear roles and responsibilities helps avoid duplication, confusion, the potential for breaching patient confidentiality, excess expenditures, and missed opportunities.
Roles and responsibilities should be clearly defined for all TB-control activities that might require collaboration between correctional facilities and health departments, including screening and treatment of inmates for LTBI and TB disease, reporting of TB disease, follow-up of inmates with symptoms or abnormal chest radiographs, medical consultation regarding persons with confirmed and suspected TB disease, contact investigations for reported TB cases, continuity of treatment and discharge planning for persons with TB disease and LTBI, training and education of correctional facility staff, evaluation of screening and case management, and facility risk assessment.
Agreements about roles and responsibilities may be formal or informal, but they should be recorded in writing.
Formal agreements include memoranda of understanding and written policies or plans.
Informal agreements may be as simple as an e-mail summary of a verbal discussion or meeting.
The format for recording and communicating agreements (e.g., checklists, flow charts, algorithms, and lists of steps) may vary depending on the need.
Once agreements are made, they should be reassessed periodically (see Program Evaluation).
Correctional facilities and health departments should work together to formulate agreements that specify the information to be shared in a particular time frame, who will have access to specific information or databases, and how patient confidentiality will be protected.
Information systems provide the framework for recording and accessing pertinent information (see Program Evaluation).
Health departments should provide correctional facilities with pertinent TB surveillance information (e.g., local rates of drug resistance, the number of TB cases occurring in correctional facilities relative to the community, and the number of TB cases identified in the community among recently incarcerated persons), which can bolster support for TB-screening activities within these facilities.
Legislation or policy statements can effectively encourage or mandate collaboration on issues (e.g., disease reporting, contact investigation, and discharge planning) when institutional barriers (e.g., time and resources) inhibit collaboration.
For example, California has improved discharge planning by prohibiting the release or transfer of inmates with confirmed or suspected TB unless a written treatment plan has been received and accepted by the local health officer (172).
Arizona's state administrative code places responsibility for contact investigations of TB exposures in correctional facilities on the correctional facility but requires consultation with (and reporting to) the local health department.
ICE also has developed a policy memorandum requesting that ICE field office directors grant a short-term hold on the deportation of patients with TB disease to allow time for the ICE health services program to facilitate continuity of care.
Summary of Recommendations Screening Early identification and successful treatment of persons with TB disease remains the most effective means of preventing disease transmission.
Inmates who are likely to have infectious TB should be identified and begin treatment before they are released into the general population.
Screening programs in the correctional setting also allow for the detection of substantial numbers of persons with LTBI who are at high risk for TB disease and would likely benefit from a course of treatment.
The type of screening recommended for a particular correctional facility is determined by an assessment of the risk for TB transmission within that facility.
The risk assessment should be performed annually and should be conducted in collaboration with the local or state health department.
A facility's TB risk level can be defined as minimal or nonminimal.
A facility should be classified as having minimal TB risk on the basis of four criteria: No cases of infectious TB have occurred in the facility in the last year.
The facility does not house substantial numbers of inmates with risk factors for TB (e.g., HIV infection and injection-drug use).
The facility does not house substantial numbers of new immigrants (i.e., persons arriving in the United States within the previous 5 years) from areas of the world with high rates of TB.
Employees of the facility are not otherwise at risk for TB.
Any facility that does not meet all of these criteria should be categorized as being a nonminimal TB risk facility.
Inmates in all minimal TB risk correctional and detention facilities require an evaluation at entry for symptoms of TB.
Persons with symptoms of TB require an immediate evaluation to rule out the presence of infectious disease and must be kept in an AII room until they are evaluated.
All newly arrived inmates should be evaluated for clinical conditions and other factors that increase the risk for TB disease.
Persons who have any of these conditions require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of TST or QFT-G result, inmates known to have HIV infection or other severe immunosuppression, as well as inmates who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have an abnormal chest radiograph should be evaluated further to rule out TB disease; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, LTBI therapy should be considered if the TST or QFT-G is positive.
In nonminimal TB risk prisons, symptom screening assessment should be performed immediately for all new inmates.
Any inmate who has symptoms suggestive of TB should be placed in an AII room and evaluated promptly for TB disease.
Inmates who have no symptoms require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of their TST or QFT-G status, inmates known to have HIV infection or other severe immunosuppression, and inmates who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have an abnormal chest radiograph should be evaluated further to rule out TB disease; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, LTBI therapy should be considered if the TST or QFT-G result is positive.
Symptom screening should be performed immediately on entry for all new detainees in nonminimal TB risk jails.
Any detainee who has symptoms suggestive of TB should be placed in an AII room and promptly evaluated for TB disease.
Detainees who are without symptoms require further screening with a TST, a QFT-G, or a chest radiograph within 7 days of arrival.
Regardless of TST or QFT-G result, detainees known to have HIV infection, and detainees who are at risk for HIV infection but whose HIV status is unknown, should have a chest radiograph taken as part of the initial screening.
Persons who have a positive result should be further evaluated to rule out TB disease.
Screening in jails with the TST or QFT-G for purposes of initiating LTBI therapy often is not practical because of the high rate of turnover and short lengths of stay.
A medical history relating to TB should be obtained from and recorded for all new employees at the time of hiring, and a physical examination for TB disease should be required.
In addition, TST or QFT-G screening should be mandatory for all employees who do not have a documented positive result.
Persons who have a positive TST or QFT-G result should have a chest radiograph taken and interpreted and should be required to have a thorough medical evaluation; if TB disease is excluded as a diagnosis, such persons should be considered for LTBI therapy.
All employees should be informed and instructed to seek appropriate follow-up and screening for TB if they are immunosuppressed for any reason (e.g., HIV infection, organ transplant recipient receiving immunosuppressive therapy, and treatment with TNF-a antagonist).
Any employee who has symptoms suggestive of TB should not return to the workplace until a clinician has excluded a diagnosis of contagious TB disease.
In general, long-term inmates and all employees who have a negative baseline TST or QFT-G result should have follow-up testing at least annually.
Persons who have a history of a positive test result should be screened annually for symptoms of TB disease.
Annual chest radiographs are unnecessary for the follow-up evaluation of infected persons.
Test results should be recorded in medical records and in a retrievable aggregate database of all TST or QFT-G results.
Case Reporting Correctional facility medical staff must report any suspected or confirmed TB cases among inmates or employees to the appropriate health agency in accordance with state and local laws and regulations, even if the inmate or detainee has already been released or transferred from the facility.
Reporting cases to health departments benefits the correctional facility by allowing it to obtain health department resources for case management and contact investigation in both the facility and the community.
In addition, drug-susceptibility results should be used to inform optimal therapy and sent to the state or local health department for use in monitoring the rates of drug resistance.
The drug-susceptibility reports also should be sent to all health departments managing contacts of the TB case because the choice of medication for LTBI treatment is based on drug-susceptibility test results of the source case.
Reports to local or state health departments should identify the agency that has custodial responsibility for the inmate.
Airborne Infection Isolation TB airborne precautions should be initiated for any patient who 1) has signs or symptoms of TB disease or 2) has documented TB disease and has not completed treatment or not previously been determined to be non-infectious.
For patients placed in an AII room because of suspected infectious TB disease of the lungs, airways, or larynx, airborne precautions can be discontinued when infectious TB disease is considered unlikely and either 1) another diagnosis is made that explains the clinical syndrome or 2) the patient has three negative AFB sputum-smear results.
Incarcerated patients in whom the suspicion of TB disease remains after the collection of three negative AFB sputum-smear results should not be released from an AII room until they are on standard multidrug anti-TB treatment and are clinically improving.
A patient who has drug-susceptible TB of the lung, airways, or larynx; who is on standard multidrug anti-TB treatment; and who has had a clinical and bacteriologic response to therapy is probably no longer infectious.
However, because culture and drug-susceptibility results typically are not known when the decision to discontinue airborne precautions is made, all patients in whom the probability of TB disease is high should remain in an AII room while incarcerated until they have 1) had three consecutive negative AFB sputum smear results, 2) received standard multidrug anti-TB treatment, and 3) demonstrated clinical improvement.
Environmental Controls Environmental controls should be implemented when the risk for TB transmission persists despite efforts to screen and treat infected inmates.
Environmental controls are used to remove, inactivate, or kill M.
tuberculosis in areas in which the organism could be transmitted.
Primary environmental controls consist of controlling the source of infection by using local exhaust ventilation (e.g., hoods, tents, or booths) and diluting and removing contaminated air using general ventilation.
Secondary environmental controls consist of controlling the airflow to prevent contamination of air in areas adjacent to the source (AII rooms) and cleaning the air using HEPA filtration and/or UVGI.
The efficiency of different primary or secondary environmental controls varies.
A detailed discussion concerning the application of environmental controls has been published previously(71).
Personal Respiratory Protection Respiratory protection is used when administrative (i.e., identification and isolation of infectious TB patients) and environmental controls alone have not reduced the risk for infection with M.
tuberculosis to an acceptable level.
The use of respiratory protection might be most appropriate in specific settings and situations within correctional facilities; for example, protection is warranted for inmates and facility staff when they enter AII rooms, transport infectious inmates in an enclosed vehicle, and perform or participate in cough-inducing procedures.
In correctional facilities, a CDC/NIOSH-approved N95 air-purifying respirator will provide adequate respiratory protection in the majority of situations that require the use of respirators.
All correctional facility staff members who use respirators for protection against infection with M.
tuberculosis must participate in the facility's respiratory protection program (e.g., understand their responsibilities, receive training, receive medical clearance, and engage in fit testing).
All facilities should develop, implement, and maintain a respiratory-protection program for health-care workers or other staff who use respiratory protection.
(Respiratory-protection programs are required for facilities covered by OSHA.) In addition to staff members, visitors to inmates with TB disease should be given respirators to wear while in AII rooms and instructed how to ensure their own respiratory protection by checking their respirator for a proper seal.
Each facility, regardless of TB risk classification (i.e., minimal or nonminimal), should develop a policy on the use of respirators by visitors of patients.
Diagnostic tests for TB include the TST, QFT-G, chest radiography, and laboratory examination of sputum samples or other body tissues and fluids.
Persons exposed to inmates with TB disease might become infected with LTBI, depending on host immunity and the degree and duration of exposure.
Therefore, the treatment of persons with TB disease plays a key role in TB control by stopping transmission and preventing potentially infectious cases from developing.
LTBI is an asymptomatic condition that can be diagnosed by the TST or QFT-G.
The preferred treatment for LTBI is 9 months of daily isoniazid or biweekly dosing administered by DOT.
Although LTBI treatment regimens are broadly applicable, modifications should be considered for certain populations (e.g., patients with HIV infection) and when drug resistance is suspected.
Individualized case management should be provided for all patients with TB disease.
In addition, patient management should be coordinated with officials of the local or state health department.
Regimens for treating TB disease must contain multiple drugs to which the organisms are susceptible.
The decision to stop therapy should be based on the number of doses taken within a maximum period (not simply a 6-month period).
Persons with cavitary pulmonary TB disease and positive cultures of sputum specimens at the completion of 2 months of therapy should receive a longer, 7-month continuation phase of therapy (total duration: 9 months) because of the substantially higher rate of relapse among persons with this type of TB disease.
Drug-susceptibility testing should be performed on all initial M.
tuberculosis isolates from patients with TB disease.
When results from drug-susceptibility tests become available, the treatment regimen should be adjusted accordingly.
Medical providers treating patients with drug-resistant TB disease should seek expert consultation and collaborate with the local health department for treatment decisions.
TB treatment regimens might need to be altered for HIV-infected persons who are receiving antiretroviral therapy.
Whenever possible, the care of persons with concomitant TB and HIV should be provided by or in consultation with experts in the management of both TB and HIV-related disease.
The primary determinant of treatment outcome is patient adherence to the drug regimen.
Thus, careful attention should be paid to measures designed to enable and foster adherence.
DOT is the preferred treatment strategy for all persons with TB disease and high-risk (e.g., HIV infected) persons with LTBI.
DOT should be used throughout the entire course of therapy whenever feasible.
Practitioners providing treatment to inmates should coordinate DOT with the local health department on an inmate's release.
The local health department also may be involved in monitoring therapy for correctional facility staff.
Discharge Planning Postrelease follow-up is a necessary component of TB control efforts.
Effective discharge planning requires collaboration between corrections and medical staff (both intra- and interfacility), as well as with public health and community-based service organizations.
To ensure uninterrupted treatment, discharge planning for inmates in whom TB disease is diagnosed must begin as soon as possible after diagnosis.
Corrections or health service administrators (or their designees) should assign staff to notify the public health department of inmates receiving treatment for TB disease or LTBI.
Inmates with TB disease should be interviewed while still incarcerated (ideally by public health staff) to enable facility administrators to assess and plan for the appropriate support and referrals that will be needed after discharge.
All correctional facilities should assign personnel (preferably health-care professionals) to serve as case managers.
These managers should be responsible for conducting discharge planning in the facility, which entails coordinating follow-up and communicating treatment histories with public health department and other health-care counterparts within the community.
Contact Investigation The overall goal of a TB contact investigation is to interrupt transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
Ongoing transmission is prevented by 1) identifying, isolating, and treating other persons with TB disease (e.g., secondary patients) and 2) identifying infected contacts of the source and secondary patients and providing them with a complete course of treatment for LTBI.
Because decisions involved in planning and prioritizing contact investigations in correctional facilities are seldom simple, the process benefits from the input of a larger, multi-disciplinary team when possible.
The best preparation for contact investigations in correctional facilities is ongoing, formal collaboration between correctional and public health officials.
The decision to initiate a contact investigation for an inmate or detainee with possible TB is made on a case-by-case basis.
In general, contact investigations should be conducted in the following circumstances: 1) suspected or confirmed pulmonary, laryngeal, or pleural TB and cavitary disease on chest radiograph or positive AFB smear results (sputum or other respiratory specimens) or 2) suspected or confirmed pulmonary (noncavitary) or pleural TB and negative AFB smear results (sputum or other respiratory specimens) and a decision has been made to initiate TB treatment.
A more limited initial investigation may be conducted for smear-negative cases.
Contact investigation should be conducted in a stepwise fashion that includes 1) notifying correctional management officials; 2) conducting a chart review of the source patient; 3) interviewing the source patient; 4) defining the infectious period; 5) convening the contact investigation team; 6) updating correctional management officials about the strategy, process, and action steps involved in conducting the contact investigation; 7) obtaining source case inmate traffic history (i.e., the dates and locations of the TB source patient's housing during the infectious period); 8) touring exposure sites; 9) prioritizing contacts according to duration and intensity of exposure and risk factors for becoming infected with TB and progressing to TB disease; 10) developing contact lists; 11) conducting a medical record review on each high-priority contact; 12) evaluating HIV-infected contacts promptly; 13) placing and reading initial TSTs or QFT-Gs on eligible contacts; 14) making referrals for contact evaluation (e.g., referrals to the local health department for contacts of inmates who have been released or transferred to another facility, family members, frequent visitors of the source patient); 15) calculating the infection rate and determining the need to expand the investigation; 16) placing and reading follow-up TSTs or QFT-Gs; 17) determining the infection/transmission rate from the second round of testing; and 18) writing a summary report.
Training and Education Although the level and detail of any employee's initial TB training and education session will vary according to staff members' job responsibilities, the following components should be included for all correctional workers, regardless of job function: 1) communication regarding the basic concepts of M.
tuberculosis transmission, signs, symptoms, diagnosis (including the difference between LTBI and TB disease), and prevention; 2) provision of basic information regarding the importance of following up on inmates or correctional workers demonstrating signs or symptoms of TB disease; 3) explanation of the need for initiation of AII of inmates with suspected or confirmed TB disease; 4) review of the policies and indications for discontinuing AII precautions; 5) discussion of basic principles of treatment for TB disease and LTBI; and 6) discussion regarding TB disease in immunocompromised persons.
Correctional workers in facilities with a high risk of TB transmission should receive enhanced and more frequent training and education regarding 1) the signs and symptoms of TB disease, 2) transmission of TB disease, and 3) infection-control policies (including instruction on and location of written infection-control policies and procedures, the facility's exposure control plan, and the respiratory protection program).
State and local health department staff providing consultation or direct services to a correctional facility (including those who act as liaisons) should receive training and education regarding the unique aspects of health care and TB control in the correctional facility setting.
Correctional facility administrators, contracted correctional facility health-care professionals, and health department staff should collaborate to develop an appropriate training program.
Inmates should receive education from facility health-care professionals or other appropriately trained workers managing the screening or treatment process.
Education and training should be appropriate in terms of the education level and language of the trainees.
Program Evaluation Program evaluation should be performed based on the CDC framework.
Successful monitoring and evaluation of a TB-prevention and -control program includes identifying collaborators, describing the TB-control program, focusing the evaluation to assess TB risk and performance, collecting and organizing data, analyzing data and forming conclusions, and using the information to improve the TB program.
Collaboration and Responsibilities The management of TB from the time an inmate is suspected of having the disease until treatment is complete presents multiple opportunities for collaboration between correctional facilities and the public health department.
Formal organizational mechanisms (e.g., designated liaisons, regular meetings, health department TB-program staff providing on-site services, and written agreements) have been demonstrated to be associated with more effective collaboration between correctional facilities and health departments.
Correctional facilities and health departments should each designate liaisons for TB-associated efforts.
Liaisons should serve as a familiar and accessible communication link between collaborating entities.
The duty of liaison at the correctional facility should be assigned to the person responsible for TB control or to another staff member familiar with TB control and patient management at the facility.
Correctional facilities and health departments should work together to agree on and delineate their respective roles and responsibilities.
Establishing clear roles and responsibilities helps avoid duplication, confusion, the potential for breaching patient confidentiality, excess expenditures, and missed opportunities.
Agreements about roles and responsibilities may be formal or informal, but they should be recorded in writing to avoid misunderstandings and to give the agreement longevity beyond personal relationships.
Acknowledgments The following persons contributed to this report: G.
Scott Earnest, PhD, Michael G.
Gressel, PhD, Kenneth R.
Mead, MS, Division of Applied Research and Technology; Teresa A.
Seitz, MPH, Douglas B.
Trout, MD, Division of Surveillance, Hazard Evaluations, and Field Studies, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, CDC.
References Elzinga G, Raviglione MC, Maher D.
Scale up: meeting targets in global tuberculosis control.
Lancet 2004;363:814--9.
MacNeil J, Lobato MN, Moore M.
An unanswered health disparity: tuberculosis among correctional inmates, 1993 through 2003.
Am J Public Health 2005;95:1800--5.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in correctional facilities: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-8):1--27.
Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Adult correctional populations, 1980--2004.
Washington, DC: US Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs; 2005.
Available at 
US Department of Justice.
Prison and jail inmates at midyear 2003.
Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin; 2004.
NCJ 203947.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2003.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Probable transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in a correctional facility---California.
MMWR 1993;42:48--51.
Braun MM, Truman BI, Maguire B, et al.
Increasing incidence of tuberculosis in a prison inmate population: association with HIV infection.
JAMA 1989;261:393--7.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Portillo CJ, Menendez E, Cruz E, Goldenson J.
Tuberculosis prevalence in an urban jail: 1994 and 1998.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:400--4.
Salive ME, Vlahov D, Brewer TF.
Coinfection with tuberculosis and HIV-1 in male prison inmates.
Public Health Rep 1990;105:307--10.
Spencer SS, Morton AR.
Tuberculosis surveillance in a state prison system.
Am J Public Health 1989;79:507--9.
Tuberculosis prevention in drug-treatment centers and correctional facilities---selected U.S.
sites, 1990--1991.
MMWR 1993;42: 210--3.
Alcabes P, Vossenas P, Cohen R, Braslow C, Michaels D, Zoloth S.
Compliance with isoniazid prophylaxis in jail.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;140:1194--7.
Lobato MN, Leary LS, Simone PM.
Treatment for latent TB in correctional facilities: a challenge for TB elimination.
Am J Prev Med 2003;24:249--53.
Bellin EY, Fletcher DD, Safyer SM.
Association of tuberculosis infection with increased time in or admission to the New York City jail system.
JAMA 1993;269:2228--31.
Undetected tuberculosis in prison: source of infection for community at large.
JAMA 1978;240:2544--7.
Jones TF, Craig AS, Valway SE, Woodley CL, Schaffner W.
Transmission of tuberculosis in a jail.
Ann Intern Med 1999;131:557--63.
Koo DT, Baron RC, Rutherford GW.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a California state prison, 1991.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:279--82.
MacIntyre CR, Kendig N, Kummer L, Birago S, Graham NM.
Impact of tuberculosis control measures and crowding on the incidence of tuberculosis infection in Maryland prisons.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;24:1060--7.
Jones TF, Woodley CL, Fountain FF, Schaffner W.
Increased incidence of the outbreak strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the surrounding community after an outbreak in a jail.
South Med J 2003;96:155--7.
Bur S, Golub JE, Armstrong JA, et al.
Evaluation of an extensive tuberculosis contact investigation in an urban community and jail.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S417--23.
Tuberculosis transmission in multiple correctional facilities---Kansas, 2002--2003.
MMWR 2004;53:734--8.
Institute of Medicine, Committee on the Elimination of Tuberculosis in the United States.
Ending neglect: the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 2000.
Graham NM, Nelson KE, Solomon L, et al.
Prevalence of tuberculin positivity and skin test anergy in HIV-1 seropositive and seronegative drug users.
JAMA 1992;267:369--72.
Wallace R, Wallace D.
Socioeconomic determinants of health: community marginalization and the diffusion of disease and disorder in the United States.
BMJ 1997;314:1341--5.
Zolopa AR, Hahn JA, Gorter R, et al.
HIV and tuberculosis infection in San Francisco's homeless adults.
JAMA 1994;272:455--61.
Hammett TM, Gaiter JL, Crawford C.
Reaching seriously at-risk populations: health interventions in criminal justice settings.
Health Educ Behav 1998;25:99--120.
Bandyopadhyay T, Murray H, Metersky ML.
Cost-effectiveness of tuberculosis prophylaxis after release from short-term correctional facilities.
Chest 2002;121:1771--5.
Tulsky JP, Pilote L, Hahn JA, et al.
Adherence to isoniazid prophylaxis in the homeless: a randomized controlled trial.
Arch Intern Med 2000;160:697--702.
Iademarco MF, Castro KG.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis.
Semin Respir Infect 2003;18:225--40.
Moua M, Guerra FA, Moore JD, Valdiserri RO.
Immigrant health: legal tools/legal barriers.
J Law Med Ethics 2002;30:189--96.
Post-detention completion of tuberculosis treatment for persons deported or released from the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service---United States, 2003.
MMWR 2003;52:438--41.
Saunders DL, Olive DM, Wallace SB, Lacy D, Leyba R, Kendig NE.
Tuberculosis screening in the federal prison system: an opportunity to treat and prevent tuberculosis in foreign-born populations.
Public Health Rep 2001;116:210--8.
Mohle-Boetani JC, Miguelino V, Dewsnup DH, et al.
Tuberculosis outbreak in a housing unit for human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients in a correctional facility: transmission risk factors and effective outbreak control.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:668--76.
Frieden TR, Fujiwara PI, Washko RM, Hamburg MA.
Tuberculosis in New York City---turning the tide.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:229--33.
Reichard AA, Lobato MN, Roberts CA, Bazerman LB, Hammett TM.
Assessment of tuberculosis screening and management practices of large jail systems.
Public Health Rep 2003;118:500--7.
Lobato MN, Roberts CA, Bazerman LB, Hammett TM.
Public health and correctional collaboration in tuberculosis control.
Am J Prev Med 2004;27:112--7.
Roberts CA, Lobato MN, Bazerman LB, Klieg R, Reichert AA, Hammett TM.
Tuberculosis prevention and control in large jails: a challenge to tuberculosis elimination.
Am J Prev Med 2006;30:125--30.
Layton MC, Henning KJ, Alexander TA, et al.
Universal radiographic screening for tuberculosis among inmates upon admission to jail.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:1335--7.
Tulsky JP, White MC, Dawson C, Hoynes TM, Goldenson J, Schecter G.
Screening for tuberculosis in jail and clinic follow-up after release.
Am J Public Health 1998;88:223--6.
Brock NN, Reeves M, LaMarre M, DeVoe B.
Tuberculosis case detection in a state prison system.
Public Health Rep 1998;113:359--64.
Tuberculosis control in the New York State Department of Correctional Services: a case management approach.
Am J Infect Control 1998;26:534--7.
Anderson KM, Keith EP, Norsted SW.
Tuberculosis screening in Washington State male correctional facilities.
Chest 1986;89:817--21.
Bergmire-Sweat D, Barnett BJ, Harris SL, Taylor JP, Mazurek GH, Reddy V.
Tuberculosis outbreak in a Texas prison, 1994.
Epidemiol Infect 1996;117:485--92.
Valway SE, Richards SB, Kovacovich J, Greifinger RB, Crawford JT, Dooley SW.
Outbreak of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in a New York State prison, 1991.
Am J Epidemiol 1994;140:113--22.
Drug-susceptible tuberculosis outbreak in a state correctional facility housing HIV-infected inmates---South Carolina, 1999--2000.
MMWR 2000;49:1041--4.
Tuberculosis morbidity among U.S.-born and foreign-born populations---United States, 2000.
2002;51:101--4.
National Commission on Correctional Health Care.
Standards for health services in jails.
Chicago, IL: National Commission on Correctional Health Care; 2003.
National Commission on Correctional Health Care.
Standards for health services in prisons.
Chicago, IL: National Commission on Correctional Health Care; 2003.
Puisis M, Feinglass J, Lidow E, Mansour M.
Radiographic screening for tuberculosis in a large urban county jail.
Public Health Rep 1996;111:330--4.
Jones TF, Schaffner W.
Miniature chest radiograph screening for tuberculosis in jails: a cost effectiveness analysis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:77--81.
Anergy skin testing and tuberculosis preventive therapy for HIV-infected persons: revised recommendations.
MMWR 1996;46(No.
RR-15):1--10.
Huebner RE, Schein MF, Bass JB Jr.
The tuberculin skin test.
Clin Infect Dis 1993;17:968--75.
Holden M, Dubin MR, Diamond PH.
Frequency of negative intermediate-strength tuberculin sensitivity in patients with active tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1971;285:1506--9.
Mckay A, Kraut A, Murdzak C, Yassi A.
Determinants of tuberculin reactivity among health care workers: interpretation of positivity following BCG vaccination.
Can J Infect Dis 1999;10:134--9.
The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-4):1--18.
Mori T, Sakatani M, Yamagishi F, et al.
Specific detection of tuberculosis infection: an interferon-gamma--based assay using new antigens.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2004;170:59--64.
Guidelines for using the QuantiFERON®-TB Gold test for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, United States.
MMWR 2005;54(No.
RR-15):49--55.
Tuberculosis elimination revisited: obstacles, opportunities, and a renewed commitment.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-9):1--13.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Reilly P, McIntosh HW, Hoynes TM, Goldenson J.
A clinical trial of a financial incentive to go to the tuberculosis clinic for isoniazid after release from jail.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:506--12.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Goldenson J, Portillo CJ, Kawamura M, Menendez E.
Randomized controlled trial of interventions to improve follow-up for latent tuberculosis infection after release from jail.
Arch Intern Med 2002;162:1044--50.
Revised guidelines for HIV counseling, testing, and referral.
MMWR 2001;50(No.
RR-19):1--57.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545--50.
American Thoracic Society, CDC.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:S221--47.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Treatment of tuberculosis.
MMWR 2003;52(No.
RR-11):1--80.
Edlin BR, Tokars JI, Grieco MH, et al.
An outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among hospitalized patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:1514--21.
Al Zahrani K, Al Jahdali H, Poirier L, Rene P, Menzies D.
Yield of smear, culture and amplification tests from repeated sputum induction for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:855--60.
Conde MB, Soares SL, Mello FC, et al.
Comparison of sputum induction with fiberoptic bronchoscopy in the diagnosis of tuberculosis: experience at an acquired immune deficiency syndrome reference center in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2238--40.
Frieden T, ed.
Toman's tuberculosis: case detection, treatment, and monitoring---questions and answers.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2004.
Behr MA, Warren SA, Salamon H, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from patients smear-negative for acid-fast bacilli.
Lancet 1999;353:444--9.
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health-care settings, 2005.
MMWR 2005;54(No.
RR-17): 1--140.
Guidelines for environmental infection control in health-care facilities: recommendations of CDC and the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC).
MMWR 2003;52 (No.
RR-10):1--44.
Institute of Medicine.
Tuberculosis in the workplace.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 2001.
American National Standards Institute, American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2004.
Ventilation for acceptable indoor air quality.
Atlanta, GA: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers; 2004.
American Correctional Association.
Standards for adult correctional institutions, 4th ed.
Lanham, MD: American Correctional Association; 2003.
American Correctional Association.
2004 standards supplement.
Lanham, MD: American Correctional Association; 2004.
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 52.2-1999.
Method of testing general ventilation air-cleaning devices for removal efficiency by particle size.
Atlanta, GA: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers; 2000.
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
Justice facilities.
2003 ASHRAE Handbook: HVAC applications.
Atlanta, GA: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers; 2003:8.1--8.3.
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
Health care facilities.
2003 ASHRAE Handbook: HVAC applications.
Atlanta, GA: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers; 2003:7.1--7.14.
Ikeda RM, Birkhead GS, DiFerdinando GT Jr, et al.
Nosocomial tuberculosis: an outbreak of a strain resistant to seven drugs.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1995;16:152--9.
Pavelchak N, DePersis RP, London M, et al.
Identification of factors that disrupt negative air pressurization of respiratory isolation rooms.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 2000;21:191--5.
Kenyon TA, Ridzon R, Luskin-Hawk R, et al.
A nosocomial outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Ann Intern Med 1997; 127:32--6.
Fraser VJ, Johnson K, Primack J, Jones M, Medoff G, Dunagan WC.
Evaluation of rooms with negative pressure ventilation used for respiratory isolation in seven midwestern hospitals.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1993;14:623--8.
Sutton PM, Nicas M, Reinisch F, Harrison RJ.
Evaluating the control of tuberculosis among healthcare workers: adherence to CDC guidelines of three urban hospitals in California.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1998;19:487--93.
Streifel AJ.
Design and maintenance of hospital ventilation systems and the prevention of airborne nosocomial infections.
In: Mayall CG, ed.
Hospital epidemiology and infection control.
Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins; 1999:1211--21.
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Respiratory protective devices.
(Title 42 CFR part 84).
Federal Register 2004;42:84.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor.
Personal protective devices--respiratory protection.
(29 CFR part 1910.134).
Federal Register 2004;29:1910.134.
American National Standards Institute.
American national standard practices for respiratory protection.
ANSI Standard Number 288.2-1992.
New York, NY: American National Standards Institute; 1992.
European Committee for Standardization.
Respiratory protective devices: filtering half masks to protect against particles---requirements, testing, marking.
Brussels, Belgium: European Committee for Standardization; 2001.
Protect yourself against tuberculosis---a respiratory protection guide for health care workers.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 1995:1--25.
NIOSH guide to industrial respiratory protection.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 1987:1--296.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis: a general review.
Bibl Tuberc 1970;26:28--106.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis in adults and children.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:1376--95.
Conde MB, Loivos AC, Rezende VM, et al.
Yield of sputum induction in the diagnosis of pleural tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:723--5.
Greenberg SD, Frager D, Suster B, Walker S, Stavropoulos C, Rothpearl A.
Active pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with AIDS: spectrum of radiographic findings (including a normal appearance).
Radiology 1994;193:115--9.
Havlir DV, Barnes PF.
Tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1999;340:367--73.
Pitchenik AE, Rubinson HA.
The radiographic appearance of tuberculosis in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and pre-AIDS.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1985;131:393--6.
Pregnancy and tuberculosis.
Chest 1984;86:S10--3.
Siddiqui AH, Perl TM, Conlon M, Donegan N, Roghmann MC.
Preventing nosocomial transmission of pulmonary tuberculosis: when may isolation be discontinued for patients with suspected tuberculosis?
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 2002;23:141--4.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2002.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 2003.
Nucleic acid amplification tests for tuberculosis.
MMWR 1996;45:950--2.
Update: nucleic acid amplification tests for tuberculosis.
MMWR 2000;49:593--4.
CDC, American Thoracic Society.
Update: fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for latent tuberculosis infection, and revisions in American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations---United States, 2001.
MMWR 2001;50:733--5.
CDC, American Thoracic Society.
Update: adverse event data and revised American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations against the use of rifampin and pyrazinamide for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---United States, 2003.
MMWR 2003;52:735--9.
Fatal and severe hepatitis associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---New York and Georgia, 2000.
MMWR 2001;50:289--91.
Update: fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide treatment for latent tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2002;51:998--9.
Prevention and treatment of tuberculosis among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: principles of therapy and revised recommendations.
MMWR 1998;47(No.
RR-20):1--58.
Menzies RI.
Tuberculin skin testing.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker; 2000:279--322.
Caminero J, Pena M, Campos-Herrero M, et al.
Exogenous reinfection with tuberculosis on a European island with a moderate incidence of disease.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;163:717--20.
Small PM, Shafer RW, Hopewell PC, et al.
Exogenous reinfection with multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in patients with advanced HIV infection.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:1137--44.
van Rie A, Warren R, Richardson M, et al.
Exogenous reinfection as a cause of recurrent tuberculosis after curative treatment.
N Engl J Med 1999;341:1174--9.
Iseman MD, Madsen LA.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis.
Clin Chest Med 1989;10:341--53.
Treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1993;329:784--91.
Chaulk CP, Moore-Rice K, Rizzo R, Chaisson RE.
Eleven years of community-based directly observed therapy for tuberculosis.
JAMA 1995;274:945--51.
Chaulk CP, Kazandjian VA.
Directly observed therapy for treatment completion of tuberculosis: census statement of the Public Health Tuberculosis Guidelines Panel.
JAMA 1998;279:943--8.
Weis SE, Slocum PC, Blais FX, et al.
The effect of directly observed therapy on the rates of drug resistance and relapse in tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1994;330:1179--84.
Acquired rifamycin resistance in persons with advanced HIV disease being treated for active tuberculosis with intermittent rifamycin-based regimens.
MMWR 2002;51:214--5.
Goble M, Iseman MD, Madsen LA, Waite D, Ackerson L, Horsburgh CR Jr.
Treatment of 171 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis resistant to isoniazid and rifampin.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:527--32.
Simone PM, Iseman MD.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis: a deadly and growing danger.
J Respir Dis 1992;13:960--71.
Initial therapy for tuberculosis in the era of multidrug resistance: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1993;42(No.
RR-7):1--8.
Cummings KC, Mohle-Boetani J, Royce SE, Chin DP.
Movement of tuberculosis patients and the failure to complete anti-tuberculosis treatment.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;157:1249--52.
Nolan CM, Roll L, Goldberg SV, Elarth AM.
Directly observed isoniazid preventive therapy for released jail inmates.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997;155:583--6.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Menendez E, Arai S, Goldenson J, Kawamura LM.
Improving tuberculosis therapy completion after jail: translation of research into practice.
Health Educ Res 2005;20:163--74.
Brewer TF, Heymann SJ.
To control and beyond: moving toward eliminating the global tuberculosis threat.
J Epidemiol Community Health 2004;58:822--5.
National Commission on Correctional Health Care.
Health status of soon-to-be-released inmates.
Chicago, IL: National Commission on Correctional Health Care; 2002.
Hammett TM, Harmon P, Maruschak LM.
1996--1997 update: HIV/AIDS, STDs, and TB in correctional facilities: issues and practices.
Washington, DC: US Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, National Institute of Justice; 1999.
NCJ 176344.
Vigilante KC, Flynn MM, Affleck PC, et al.
Reduction in recidivism of incarcerated women through primary care, peer counseling, and discharge planning.
J Women's Health 1999;8:409--15.
Freudenberg N, Wilets I, Greene MB, Richie BE.
Linking women in jail to community services: factors associated with rearrest and retention of drug-using women following release from jail.
J Amer Med Womens Assoc 1998;53:89--93.
Wilcock K, Hammett TM, Parent DG.
Controlling tuberculosis in community corrections.
Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice Research in Action; 1995:1--11.
Marco A, Cayla JA, Serra M, et al.
Predictors of adherence to tuberculosis treatment in supervised therapy programme for detainees before and after release.
Study Group of Adherence to Tuberculosis Treatment of Prisoners.
Eur Respir J 1998;12:967--71.
The status of TB prevention and control measures in large city and county jails in the U.S.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2003.
Available at 
Self-study modules on tuberculosis: TB surveillance and case management in hospitals and institutions.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 1999.
Menendez E, White MC, Tulsky JP.
Locating study subjects: predictors and successful search strategies with inmates released from a U.S.
county jail.
Control Clin Trials 2001;22:238--47.
Rich JD, Holmes L, Salas C, et al.
Successful linkage of medical care and community services for HIV-positive offenders being released from prison.
J Urban Health 2001;78:279--89.
Sumartojo E.
When tuberculosis treatment fails: a social behavioral account of patient adherence.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1993;147:1311--20.
Bartlett JG, Tripoli LC, Rappaport ES, Ruby W.
HIV in corrections.
Chesterfield, MO: Correctional Medicine Institute; 2000.
Available at 
Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law.
Finding the key to successful transition from jail to the community: an explanation of federal Medicaid and disability program rules.
Washington, DC: Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law; 2001.
Available at 
Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law.
Building bridges: an act to reduce recidivism by improving access to benefits for individuals with psychiatric disabilities upon release from incarceration: model law and commentary.
Washington, DC: Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law; 2002.
Osher F, Steadman HJ, Barr H.
A best practice approach to community re-entry from jails for inmates with co-occurring disorders: the APIC model.
Delmar, NY: The National GAINS Center for People with Co-occurring Disorders in the Justice System; 2002.
Richie BE, Freudenberg N, Page J.
Reintegrating women leaving jail into urban communities: a description of a model program.
J Urban Health 2001;78:290--303.
Conklin T, Lincoln T, Wilson R.
A public health manual for correctional health care.
Ludlow, MA: Hampden County Sheriffs Department; 2002.
Safyer S, Richmond L, Bellin E, Fletcher D.
Tuberculosis in correctional facilities: the tuberculosis control program at the Montefiore Medical Center Rikers Island Health Services.
J Law Med Ethics 1993;21:342--51.
Woods GL, Harris SL, Solomon D.
Tuberculosis knowledge and beliefs among prison inmates and lay employees.
J Correctional Health Care 1997;4:61--9.
White MC, Duong TM, Cruz ES, et al.
Strategies for effective education in a jail setting: the Tuberculosis Prevention Project.
Health Promot Pract 2003;4:422--9.
Goldberg SV, Wallace J, Jackson JC, Chaulk CP, Nolan CM.
Cultural case management of latent tuberculosis infection.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2004;8:76--82.
Grinstead O, Zack B, Faigles B.
Collaborative research to prevent HIV among male prison inmates and their female partners.
Health Educ and Behav 1999;26:225--38.
National Commission on Correctional Health Care.
Position statement on management of tuberculosis in correctional facilities.
Chicago, IL: National Commission on Correctional Health Care; 1996.
Malotte CK, Rhodes F, Mais KE.
Tuberculosis screening and compliance with return for skin test reading among active drug users.
Am J Public Health 1998;88:792--6.
Perlman DC, Friedmann P, Horn L, et al.
Impact of monetary incentives on adherence to referral for screening chest x-rays after syringe exchange-based tuberculin skin testing.
J Urban Health 2003;80:428--37.
Johnston M, Cronin V, Wells M, Johri S.
Individual educational sessions and inmate follow-up for latent tuberculosis infection treatment after jail release---a pilot study.
Journal of Correctional Health Care 2003;10:47--58.
Preventing and controlling tuberculosis along the U.S.-Mexico border MMWR 2001;50(No.
RR-1):1--27.
Federal Tuberculosis Task Force.
Federal Tuberculosis Task Force Plan in response to the Institute of Medicine Report, Ending neglect: the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2003.
McNabb SJN, Surdo AM, Redmond A, et al.
Applying a new conceptual framework to evaluate tuberculosis surveillance and action performance and measure the costs, Hillsborough County, Florida, 2002.
Ann Epidemiol 2004;14:640--5.
McLaughlin SI, Spradling P, Drocuik D, Ridzon R, Pozsik CJ, Onorato I.
Extensive transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis among congregated, HIV-infected prison inmates in South Carolina, United States.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:665--72.
Kimerling ME, Shakes CF, Carlisle R, Lok KH, Benjamin WH, Dunlap NE.
Spot sputum screening: evaluation of an intervention in two homeless shelters.
Int J Tuber Lung Dis 1999;3:613--9.
Marks SM, Taylor Z, Qualls NL, Shrestha-Kuwahara RJ, Wilce MA, Nguyen CH.
Outcomes of contact investigations of infectious tuberculosis patients.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2033--8.
Reichler MR, Reves R, Bur S, et al.
Evaluation of investigations conducted to detect and prevent transmission of tuberculosis.
JAMA 2002;287:991--5.
Gerald LB, Bruce F, Brooks CM, et al.
Standardizing contact investigation protocols.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S369--74.
Shaw JB, Wynn-Williams N.
Infectivity of pulmonary tuberculosis in relation to sputum status.
Am Rev Tuberc 1954;69:724--32.
Grzybowski S, Barnett GD, Styblo K.
Contacts of cases of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Bull Int Union Tuberc 1975;50:90--106.
Rose CE, Zerbe GO, Lantz SO, Bailey WC.
Establishing priority during investigation of tuberculosis contacts.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1979;119:603--9.
Bailey WC, Gerald LB, Kimerling ME, et al.
Predictive model to identify positive tuberculosis skin test results during contact investigations.
JAMA 2002;287:996--1002.
Gerald LB, Tang S, Bruce F, et al.
A decision tree for tuberculosis contact investigation.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002;166:1122--7.
Golub JE, Bur S, Cronin WA, et al.
Proc Am Thorac Soc 2005;2:A271.
Guidelines for the investigation of contacts of persons with infectious tuberculosis: recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC.
MMWR 2005;54(No.
RR-15):1--47.
Rodriguez EM, Steinbart S, Shaulis G, Bur S, Dwyer DM.
Pulmonary tuberculosis in a high school student and a broad contact investigation: lessons relearned.
Md Med J 1996;45:1019--22.
Interpretation of repeated tuberculin tests: boosting, conversion, and reversion.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159:15--21.
Moreno S, Blazquez R, Novoa A, et al.
The effect of BCG vaccination on tuberculin reactivity and the booster effect among hospital employees.
Arch Intern Med 2001;161:1760--5.
Framework for program evaluation in public health.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-11):1--40.
Controlling tuberculosis in the United States.
MMWR 2005;54 (No.
RR-12):1--81.
Hammett TM.
Public health/corrections collaborations: prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS, STDs, and TB.
Washington, DC: US Department of Justice, National Institute of Justice; 1998.
California Health And Safety Code, Section 121361.
Available at 
* The epidemiology of TB in the United States has changed dramatically since the early 1990s.
Immigration from countries with a high prevalence of TB contributes substantially to the continued high rates of disease and transmission among foreign-born persons.
In 2003, the rate of TB among foreign-born persons in the Untied States was 8.7 times higher than the rate for persons born in the United States.
More than half of new TB cases in 2003 occurred in foreign-born persons, particularly those from Mexico, the Philippines, and Vietnam.
Of 114 patients in whom multi-drug resistant TB (MDR TB) were diagnosed, foreign-born persons accounted for 95 (83%) cases (6).
Detention facilities and local jails frequently contract with U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to house detainees, a practice that should be accounted for in assessing a facility's risk status.
† Therapy that involves providing the anti-TB drugs directly to the patient and watching as the patient swallows the medications.
DOT is the preferred core management strategy for all patients with TB.
DOT for LTBI is referred to sometimes as directly observed preventive therapy.
§ Formerly called a negative pressure isolation room, an AII room is a single-occupancy patient-care room used to isolate persons with suspected or confirmed infectious TB disease.
Environmental factors are controlled in AII rooms to minimize the transmission of infectious agents that are usually spread from person to person by droplet nuclei associated with coughing or aerosolization of contaminated fluids.
AII rooms should provide negative pressure in the room so clean air flows under the door gap into the room, an air flow rate of 6--12 air changes per hour (ACH), and direct exhaust of air from the room to the outside of the building or recirculation of air through a high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter.
¶ ACH is the ratio of the volume of air entering the room or booth per hour to the volume of that room or booth.
It equals the exhaust airflow (Q) in cubic feet per minute (cfm) divided by the volume of the room or booth (V) in cubic feet (ft3) multiplied by 60 minutes per hour, as expressed thus: ** Surgical masks should never be worn in place of a respirator.
Surgical masks often fit so poorly that they provide only minimal protection from any airborne hazard, including M.
tuberculosis.
Surgical masks are designed to protect others from the wearer; they are not designed or tested to provide respiratory protection to the wearer.
†† Asymptomatic contacts with normal chest radiographs typically do not require isolation.
§§ Because being immunocompromised (having pathologic or iatrogenic immune suppression, e.g., HIV infection or chemotherapy) is a risk factor for TB disease, correctional workers should be educated on the relation between TB and medical conditions associated with being immunocompromised.
Correctional workers should be encouraged to discuss known or possible immunocompromising conditions with their private physicians or health-care professionals.
¶¶ Public health departments typically track treatment completion rates for patients referred to their care.
Table 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Table 4 Return to top.
Table 5 Return to top.
Table 6 Return to top.
Table 7 Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly November 8, 2002 / 51(44);998-999 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Public Health Dispatch: Update: Fatal and Severe Liver Injuries Associated with Rifampin and Pyrazinamide Treatment for Latent Tuberculosis Infection Reports of fatal and severe liver injury associated with treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) with the drug combination rifampin and pyrazinamide (RZ) prompted CDC to issue revised guidelines for the use of this regimen on August 31, 2001 (1).
To determine if these revised guidelines were effective in reducing morbidity and mortality, CDC has continued to collect reports on adverse effects associated with this regimen.
This update summarizes the results of this ongoing investigation.
A case of severe liver injury was defined as a hospital admission or death of a patient being treated for LTBI with RZ (1,2).
As of September 25, 2002, a total of 40 cases (eight fatal) were reported, of which 23 (five fatal) have been described (1,2).
Of the 17 cases (three fatal) that have not been described in previous reports, two occurred in patients who started RZ after publication of the revised guidelines.
Both patients survived.
One patient had contraindications for RZ (i.e., hepatitis and alcoholism).
The other did not have contraindications for RZ and received RZ twice a week by directly observed therapy (DOT).
According to information collected during DOT visits, the patient did not complain of any symptoms until the last week of the regimen.
However, because the patient did not speak English, comprehension might have been a barrier.
The patient missed two scheduled clinic appointments; serum aminotransferase and bilirubin levels were measured before treatment, but no biweekly tests were performed while the patient was on RZ, as is recommended in the revised guidelines.
Physicians who choose to administer RZ instead of the preferred INH should follow the revised guidelines.
Summary of Revised Guidelines The 9-month regimen of isoniazid (INH) remains the preferred treatment for patients who have LTBI and indications for treatment (1,3).
Daily RZ for 2 months or twice-weekly RZ for 2 or 3 months should be used with caution, especially in patients taking other medications associated with liver injury and in those with alcoholism, even if alcohol is discontinued during treatment.
RZ is not recommended for persons with underlying liver disease or for those who have had INH- associated liver injury.
If RZ is prescribed, evaluation of patients should include tests of serum aminotransferase and bilirubin at baseline and at 2, 4, and 6 weeks of treatment.
CDC continues to collect data on reports of severe liver injury leading to hospital admission or death in persons receiving any treatment for LTBI.
To determine the incidence of and risk factors for this problem, CDC is investigating cohorts of patients who received RZ.
Health-care providers should report possible cases to CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, telephone 404-639-8442.
Reported by: State and territorial health depts.
Lambert L, MPH, Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
References CDC.
Update: Fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinmaide for latent tuberculosis infection, and revisions in American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations, 2001.
MMWR 2001:50:733--5.
Fatal and severe hepatitis associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---New York and Georgia, 2000.
MMWR 2001;50:289--91.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly April 20, 2001 / 50(15);289-291 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Fatal and Severe Hepatitis Associated With Rifampin and Pyrazinamide for the Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection --- New York and Georgia, 2000 One of the recommended treatments for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) is a 9-month regimen of isoniazid (INH); a 2-month regimen of rifampin (RIF) and pyrazinamide (PZA) is an alternative in some instances.
In September 2000, a man in New York died of hepatitis after 5 weeks of RIF-PZA, and in December, a woman in Georgia was admitted to a hospital because of hepatitis after 7 weeks of this regimen.
This report summarizes the findings of the investigations of these incidents, which underscore the need for clinical monitoring for adverse effects in all patients receiving treatment for LTBI.
Case 1 A 53-year-old incarcerated man received 600 mg (6.7 mg/Kg) RIF and 1750 mg (19 mg/Kg) PZA daily after screening revealed a tuberculin skin test (TST) with 20 mm induration and no radiologic or clinical findings of active tuberculosis (TB).
His risk factors for TB included previous work as a medical orderly, homelessness, and multiple incarcerations.
He had a history of hypertensive heart disease and alcoholism without evidence of chronic liver disease.
He was not known to inject drugs.
RIF-PZA was standard treatment for LTBI at the jail.
Baseline and 1-month serum aminotransferase and bilirubin levels were measured routinely.
The patient's baseline aminotransferase levels were slightly higher than the upper-normal limits.
He was instructed to stop taking RIF-PZA if he developed symptoms suggestive of hepatitis.
He also received 325 mg enteric-coated aspirin daily, 90 mg extended-release nifedipine, and 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
Nurses supervised the administration of all medication to assure compliance.
Blood specimens tested on day 33 of treatment revealed alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 1734 U/L (normal range: 0--41 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 1449 U/L (normal range: 0--38 U/L), and total bilirubin 4.2 mg/dL (normal range: 0--1.0 mg/dL).
Blood cell counts showed leukocytosis.
On day 35, RIF-PZA was discontinued when the test results were received.
On the same day, a correctional officer urged the patient to visit the infirmary because of poor appetite and lassitude that had developed over several days; he declined.
Five days after the cessation of RIF-PZA, the patient was evaluated in the infirmary for jaundice and altered mental status and was admitted to a hospital.
Serum total bilirubin peaked at 17.8 mg/dL and blood ammonia at 378 µmol/L (normal range: 17--47 µmol/L).
He died 3 days after admission.
On postmortem histology, the liver had bridging necrosis, lymphocytic infiltration, focal cholestasis, increased fibrosis, and micronodular cirrhosis.
Results were negative for serum anti-A IgM, antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc), antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs), and antibody to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV).
Antinuclear antibody (ANA) was undetectable.
Hepatitis B and C were undetectable by polymerase chain reaction assays.
The reported cause of death was liver necrosis and failure as a result of hepatitis following LTBI treatment.
Case 2 A 59-year-old woman received 600 mg (7.2 mg/Kg) RIF and 2000 mg (24 mg/Kg) PZA daily after testing revealed a TST with 27 mm induration and no findings for active TB.
She chose this regimen because of suspected exposure to drug-resistant TB and concern about liver injury from INH.
In addition to RIF-PZA, she received beclomethasone dipropionate nasal spray, budesonide inhalation powder, and albuterol inhalation aerosol for nasal allergies and asthma.
She had no history of liver disease, rarely drank alcohol, and did not inject drugs.
She was vaccinated against hepatitis A but not B.
She had a history of anaphylactic reactions to penicillin and an estrogen sulfates blend.
Baseline ALT and AST, bilirubin levels, and blood cell counts were normal.
She was instructed to contact her health-care provider about adverse effects during treatment.
On day 2 of treatment, she reported queasiness.
On day 17, her blood tests were repeated: serum aminotransferase and bilirubin levels were normal, and her eosinophil count, which had been 157 cells/µL, was 510 cells/µL (normal range: 50--550 cells/µL).
She subsequently experienced malaise, anorexia, and feverishness, and she occasionally took one bismuth subsalicylate chewable tablet.
On the 49th and last day of treatment, she returned to her health-care provider and was admitted to a hospital because of jaundice and altered mental status.
AST was 986 U/L (normal range: 7--40 U/L), ALT 1735 U/L (normal range: 17--63 U/L), and total bilirubin 11.4 mg/dL (normal range: 0.1--1.1 mg/dL).
The bilirubin peaked at 27.5 mg/dL after 14 days.
Peak eosinophil count was 2580 cells/µL.
No ova or protozoa were detected by stool examinations.
Serum ANA was 1:640 (speckled pattern).
Antibody (not IgM) to hepatitis A virus was detected.
Test results were negative for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), anti-HBs, and anti-HCV.
After receiving 40 mg prednisone daily, the symptoms and laboratory abnormalities slowly abated, and she was released after 25 days in the hospital.
Reported by: M DeMartino, MD, Nassau County Office of the Medical Examiner; J Maniscalco, A Greenberg, MD, Nassau County Dept of Health, Mineola; J Grabau, PhD, M Oxtoby, MD, E Foster, MS, Bur of Tuberculosis Control, P Smith, MD, State Epidemiologist, New York State Dept of Health.
P Kozarsky, MD, C Pox, MD, Emory Univ School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
National Institute of Diabetes and Diseases of the Digestive System and Kidneys, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
Occupational Health Clinic, Office of Health and Safety, Office of the Director, Hepatitis Br, Div of Viral and Rickettsial Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases; Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Editorial Note: Case 1 is the first report to CDC of fatal hepatitis associated with the RIF-PZA regimen for LTBI, although sporadic cases of liver injury have been attributed to PZA used in treatment regimens for TB disease (1).
Both cases illustrate that the usually well-tolerated regimens for LTBI occasionally can result in severe adverse effects and that clinical monitoring is crucial during treatment.
In these cases, biochemical monitoring did not help to avoid severe liver injury and does not substitute for clinical monitoring (2).
Idiosyncratic liver injury can be caused by hypersensitivity, as suspected for case 2, or by toxic drug metabolites.
Other cases have implicated various medicines and alcohol as potential co-factors for INH liver injury (3,4).
A similar association has not been assessed for RIF and PZA because of small case numbers.
Patients with LTBI and risk factors for active TB should be offered treatment (1,5).
Health-care providers should instruct and frequently remind patients about the initial symptoms of hepatitis (e.g., fatigue, nausea, abdominal pain, and anorexia) and the importance of stopping medication if symptoms develop (2).
In this report, both patients continued taking their medicines while symptoms were developing, a phenomenon also reported for INH-associated hepatitis (4).
CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination is interested in receiving reports of severe hepatitis in patients being treated for LTBI.
To report possible cases, telephone (404) 639-8125.
References Fox W, Mitchison DA.
Short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
American Review of Respiratory Disease 1975;111:325--53.
American Thoracic Society.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:S221--S247.
Millard PS, Wilcosky TC, Reade-Christopher SJ, Weber DJ.
Isoniazid-related fatal hepatitis.
West J Med 1996;164:486--91.
Severe isoniazid-associated hepatitis---New York, 1991--1993.
MMWR 1993;42:545--7.
Tuberculosis elimination revisited: obstacles, opportunities, and a renewed commitment---Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1999;48 (no.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly August 8, 2003 / 52(31);735-739 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Update: Adverse Event Data and Revised American Thoracic Society/CDC Recommendations Against the Use of Rifampin and Pyrazinamide for Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection---United States, 2003 CDC has reported previously surveillance data of severe liver injury in patients treated for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) with a daily and twice-weekly 2-month* regimen of rifampin with pyrazinamide (RZ).
On the basis of these initial reports, CDC cautioned clinicians in the use of this therapy with advised additional monitoring (1--4).
To estimate the incidence of RZ-associated severe liver injury and provide more precise data to guide treatment for LTBI, CDC collected data from cohorts of patients in the United States who received RZ for the treatment of LTBI during January 2000--June 2002 and for whom data were reported to CDC through June 6, 2003.
This report summarizes the analysis, which found high rates of hospitalization and death from liver injury associated with the use of RZ.
On the basis of these findings, the American Thoracic Society (ATS) and CDC now recommend that this regimen should generally not be offered to persons with LTBI.
The revised ATS/CDC recommendations described in this report have been endorsed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA).
Clinicians are advised to use the recommended alternative regimens for the treatment of LTBI (Table).
Rifampin and pyrazinamide (PZA) should continue to be administered in multidrug regimens for the treatment of persons with active tuberculosis (TB) disease (5).
For surveillance purposes, a case of severe liver injury was defined as one leading to the hospitalization or death of a patient being treated for LTBI with RZ (2).
During October 2000--June 2003, CDC received reports of 48 patients who had confirmed cases; 33 (69%) cases occurred in the second month of treatment.
A total of 11 (23%) patients died†, including two persons known to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
A two-phase retrospective survey was conducted to estimate the incidence of severe liver injury among persons receiving RZ for treatment of LTBI.
In December 2001 (phase I), CDC sent a questionnaire by e-mail to TB-control programs in 12 large cities and all 50 states, asking them to identify programs and health-care providers prescribing RZ for treatment of LTBI.
All controllers responded, and in February 2002, CDC staff called the programs and health-care providers identified as prescribing RZ for LTBI to confirm its use.
In September 2002 (phase II), CDC mailed a second questionnaire to the 150 health-care providers identified during the first phase, requesting aggregate cohort data for January 2000--June 2002; 109 (78%) health-care providers responded by June 6, 2003.
Of 7,737 patients who were reported to have started RZ for treatment of LTBI during the survey period, 5,980 (77%) received daily doses, and 1,757 (23%) received twice-weekly doses.
A total of 204 patients discontinued using RZ because of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations greater than five times the upper limit of normal (rate: 26.4 per 1,000 treatment initiations; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 22.8--30.0).
An additional 146 patients discontinued using RZ because of symptoms of hepatitis (rate: 18.9 per 1,000 treatment initiations; 95% CI = 17.4--20.4).
Of the 48 cases of severe liver injury reported to CDC through passive surveillance, 30 also were detected in the second phase of the survey.
Of the 18 patients whose cases were not detected, six patients had liver injuries outside the survey period, five patients' health-care providers did not respond to the questionnaire, and seven (six of whom were in private practice) were not identified in the first phase of the survey.
Of the 30 patients whose cases were detected, 23 (77%) recovered, and seven (23%) died.
On the basis of these 30 cases, the estimated rates of hospitalization and death during the survey period were 3.0 (95% CI = 1.8--4.2) and 0.9 (95% CI = 0.2--1.6) per 1,000 treatment initiations, respectively.
Reported by: State and territorial health depts.
Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Editorial Note: The CDC cohort analysis found that the rates of severe liver injury and death related to the use of RZ are higher than the rates for isoniazid (INH)-associated liver injury in the treatment of LTBI.
Although initial studies attributed hospitalization rates as high as 5.0 per 1,000 treatment initiations and mortality rates as high as 1.0 per 1,000 to INH (6,7), studies conducted since 1991 involving more than one million persons treated with INH have reported hospitalization rates of 0.1--0.2 (median: 0.15) and mortality rates of 0--0.3 per 1,000 (median: 0.04) (4,8,9).
This decrease from earlier studies might reflect careful selection of patients and active monitoring for early signs of adverse events.
In addition to the survey on the use of RZ described in this report, recent studies have reported episodes of liver injury and hospitalization associated with RZ for treatment of LTBI (10,11), including the need for transplantation in one patient (12).
Among first-line agents in the treatment of active TB disease, pyrazinamide (PZA) might be the most hepatotoxic (13).
These data and other recent studies (4,10,11,14--16) were reviewed by TB experts§ at a meeting held during the 99th International ATS Conference in Seattle, Washington, on May 12, 2003, to discuss proposed revisions to guidelines for the treatment of LTBI.
ATS and CDC now recommend that this regimen should generally not be offered to persons with LTBI for either HIV-negative or HIV-infected persons.
On the basis of the investigation of potential cofactors in the 48 patients with serious liver injury, this regimen should never be offered to patients who 1) are concurrently taking other medications associated with liver injury; 2) drink excessive amounts of alcohol, even if alcohol use is discontinued during treatment; 3) have underlying liver disease; or 4) have a history of INH-associated liver injury.
If the potential benefits of this regimen outweigh the risk for severe liver injury and death associated with it, use of RZ might be considered in carefully selected patients, but only if 1) the preferred or alternative regimens (i.e., 9 months of daily or biweekly INH, 6 months of daily or biweekly INH, or 4 months of daily rifampin) are judged not likely to be completed and 2) oversight by a clinician with expertise in the treatment of LTBI can be provided.
A TB/LTBI expert should be consulted before RZ is offered.
In addition, patients should be asked whether they have had liver disease or adverse effects from taking INH or other drugs, informed of potential hepatotoxicity of the RZ regimen, and advised against the concurrent use of potentially hepatotoxic drugs, including over-the-counter drugs such as acetaminophen.
Patients should be reassessed in person by a health-care provider at 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks of treatment for adherence, tolerance, and adverse effects.
The 8-week assessment also should be used to document treatment completion.
At each visit, health-care providers who speak the patient's own language should instruct the patient to stop taking RZ immediately and seek medical consultation if abdominal pain, emesis, jaundice, or other symptoms of hepatitis develop.
Provider continuity is recommended for optimal monitoring.
For persons taking this regimen, serum aminotransaminases (AT) and bilirubin should be measured at baseline and at 2, 4, 6, and 8¶ weeks of treatment.
Because the majority of these patients had onset of symptoms of liver injury after the fourth week of therapy (Figure), patients should be monitored throughout the entire course of treatment.
Use of RZ should be discontinued immediately and not resumed for any of the following findings: 1) AT greater than five times the upper limit of normal range in an asymptomatic person, 2) AT greater than normal range when accompanied by symptoms of hepatitis, or 3) a serum bilirubin concentration greater than the normal range, whether or not symptoms are present.
The risk for progression from LTBI to active TB is increased substantially in persons with HIV infection (4).
Therefore, as recommended previously for the treatment of all persons in whom LTBI is diagnosed, voluntary HIV counseling and testing should be offered routinely.
For progression to TB disease to be prevented, persons with LTBI should be identified in contact investigations and targeted screening programs and should complete treatment with safe and effective regimens.
The successful treatment of LTBI is an essential component of the TB elimination strategy in the United States (4).
In addition to this report, CDC and its partners are sending a letter to TB-control programs in 12 large cities and all 50 states and organizations active in TB control (e.g., the National Coalition to Eliminate Tuberculosis).
To reach clinicians who are treating patients with LTBI, primary care medical associations (e.g., the American Medical Association and the American College of Physicians) are distributing this report to their members.
This report and the letter are available at 
The letter is being added to the April 2000 CDC Targeted Tuberculin Testing and Treatment of Latent TB Infection Guidelines, and existing provider educational materials are being revised.
The recommendations against the use of RZ for treatment of LTBI described in this report do not apply to the appropriate use of rifampin and PZA in multidrug regimens for the treatment of persons with active TB disease.
In these circumstances, the risk for morbidity and mortality from TB disease is substantially greater than with LTBI.
Rifampin and PZA are essential components of recommended ATS/CDC/IDSA regimens that render patients noninfectious rapidly and are effective in curing patients with drug-susceptible M.
tuberculosis strains within 6 months (5).
CDC continues to collect reports of severe liver injury leading to hospital admission or death in persons receiving any treatment for LTBI.
Health-care providers are encouraged to report such events to CDC's Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, telephone 404-639-8442.
Details of the RZ survey analysis and the case series will be described in a separate publication.
References CDC.
Fatal and severe hepatitis associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---New York and Georgia, 2000.
MMWR 2001;50:289--91.
Update: fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for latent tuberculosis infection, and revisions in American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations---United States, 2001.
MMWR 2001;50:733--5.
Update: fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide treatment for latent tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2002;51:998--9.
American Thoracic Society, CDC.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:S221--47.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Treatment of tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:603--62.
Garibaldi RA, Drusin RE, Ferebee SH, et al.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis.
Report of an outbreak.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1972;106:357--65.
Kopanoff DE, Snider DE Jr, Caras GJ.
Isoniazid-related hepatitis: a U.S.
Public Health Service cooperative surveillance study.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1978;117:991--1001.
Snider DE Jr, Caras GJ.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis deaths: a review of available information.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1992;145:494--7.
Nolan CM, Goldberg SV, Buskin SE.
Hepatotoxicity associated with isoniazid preventive therapy: a 7-year survey from a public health tuberculosis clinic.
JAMA 1999;281:1014--8.
Lee AM, Mennone JZ, Jones RC, et al.
Risk factors for hepatotoxicity associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection: experience from three public health tuberculosis clinics.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2002;6:995--1000.
McNeill L, Allen M, Estrada C, et al.
Pyrazinamide and rifampin vs isoniazid for the treatment of latent tuberculosis: improved completion rates but more hepatotoxicity.
Chest 2003;123:102--6.
Kunimoto D, Warman A, Beckon A, et al.
Severe hepatotoxicity associated with rifampin-pyrazinamide preventative therapy requiring transplantation in an individual at low risk for hepatotoxicity.
Clin Infect Dis 2003;36:158--161.
Yee D, Valiquette C, Pelletier M, et al.
Incidence of serious side effects from first-line antituberculosis drugs among patients treated for active tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:1472--7.
Jasmer RM, Saukkonen JJ, Blumberg HM, et al.
Short-course rifampin and pyrazinamide compared with isoniazid for latent tuberculosis infection: a multicenter clinical trial.
Ann Intern Med 2002;137:640--7.
Stout JE, Engemann JJ, Cheng AC, et al.
Safety of 2 months of rifampin and pyrazinamide for treatment of latent tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:824--7.
Chaisson RE, Armstrong J, Stafford J, et al.
Safety and tolerability of intermittent rifampin/pyrazinamide for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in prisoners.
JAMA 2002;288:165--6.
* The twice-weekly rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen for treatment of LTBI was specified to be completed within 2--3 months.
† Of the 11 deaths, eight were reported previously (1--3).
§ Representatives from state and local TB-control programs and health departments and hospitals, National TB Centers, ATS, the National Coalition to Eliminate Tuberculosis, the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association, Infectious Diseases Society of America, the American College of Chest Physicians, and CDC.
CDC met separately with the Food and Drug Administration.
¶ In the interim revised recommendations, biochemical monitoring at 2, 4, and 6 weeks was recommended (2); however, because of the occurrence of serious adverse events late in the course of RZ treatment, monitoring at 8 weeks has been added.
Table Return to top.
Figure Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly March 26, 1993 / 42(11);210-213 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Tuberculosis Prevention in Drug-Treatment Centers and Correctional Facilities -- Selected U.S.
Sites, 1990-1991 The risk for tuberculosis (TB) is higher among injecting-drug users (IDUs) and correctional facility (CF) inmates than in the general population because a greater proportion are infected with TB and are at higher risk for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (1,2).
Because of this higher risk and because of the potential for transmission of TB in CFs, prevention of TB among persons in these populations is a high priority (1,2).
This report summarizes the results of a demonstration project during 1990-1991 to evaluate the feasibility of on-site screening for TB infection among drug-treatment center (DTC) clients and CF inmates and providing preventive therapy to reduce the risk for TB among persons with TB infection.
In 1989, CDC awarded funds to 25 state and city health departments * to support tuberculin skin testing and administration of preventive therapy, in conjunction with HIV counseling and testing, in DTCs and CFs.
Health departments collaborated with drug-abuse agencies and CFs to select project sites and to develop plans for implementing project activities.
Staff at the DTCs and CFs typically 1) performed Mantoux tuberculin skin tests, 2) performed or arranged for HIV counseling and testing, 3) either referred persons with positive tuberculin reactions for evaluation (DTCs) or performed evaluations on site (CFs), 4) provided directly observed isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy to infected inmates and clients, and 5) monitored inmates and clients for toxicity to INH.
Health department TB programs provided overall project planning, staff training in skin testing and preventive therapy at project sites, evaluation of persons with positive skin test reactions for active TB, evaluation of INH preventive therapy, and evaluation of the project.
CDC developed a computerized data management system consisting of a standardized data collection workform and data base software.
Data were collected from the time each facility began screening, with most beginning sometime in 1990.
Provisional data from 23 areas were available for 40,823 persons enrolled in the target facilities from program initiation through December 1991 (Table 1).
Of these, 30,808 (75.5%) were from 114 DTCs and 10,015 (24.5%) were from six CFs.
Of the 39,060 (95.7%) persons enrolled and eligible for screening (i.e., all those without a documented history of TB infection), 38,350 (98.2%) received a tuberculin skin test; of these, 36,990 (96.5%) were read.
Of those skin tested and who had the tests read in DTCs, 2645 (9.7%) had a reaction of greater than or equal to 5 mm; in CFs, 2214 (22.7%).
When persons with previously documented Mantoux reactions were included, 4167 (13.3%) were positive in DTCs, and 2455 (24.6%) in CFs.
HIV serostatus was recorded for 25.5% of all clients, of whom 20.8% were reported as positive.
In 34.9%, the HIV-antibody test was completed, but the results have not yet been shared with the TB programs primarily because of confidentiality concerns.
For 8.1%, the clients declined the HIV test, and for 31.4%, the HIV test was not offered.
Clients whose last HIV test was negative and performed more than 3 months before the TB screening were counted in the "not offered" category.
As of June 1992, 2497 (69.8%) of those from DTCs and 1905 (85.2%) of those from CFs were evaluated.
This project identified 26 previously unreported active TB cases and 145 persons with suspected TB disease.
All of the 21 persons with active TB cases and with known HIV status were HIV seropositive.
Of the 124 persons with suspected TB for whom HIV status was known, 61 (49.2%) were HIV seropositive.
Excluding persons with medical contraindications, 2859 (88.4%) eligible persons were placed on preventive therapy -- 1386 (84.0%) in DTCs and 1473 (92.9%) in CFs.
Of the 1726 persons eligible for completion and for whom a final disposition has been received, 1438 (83.3%) completed a recommended course of preventive therapy: 442 (65.9%) of 671 in DTCs and 996 (94.4%) of 1055 in CFs.
Of those eligible for completion in DTCs, 120 (17.9%) were lost to supervision, 90 (13.4%) refused to complete therapy, and 19 (2.8%) did not complete therapy for other reasons.
Reported by: Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for Prevention Svcs, CDC.
Editorial Note Editorial Note: Approximately 540,000 inmates are discharged each year from federal and state correctional institutions (3), and an estimated 645,000 clients (including approximately 265,000 IDUs) are discharged from DTCs (4).
Although the facilities in this project may not be representative of DTCs and CFs nationwide, the tuberculin skin testing results suggest that approximately 87,000 (13.3%) of the DTC clients and 133,000 (24.6%) of federal and state correctional institution inmates may be discharged annually with latent TB infection.
Many of these persons have a history of injecting-drug use and either have or are at risk for HIV infection.
These persons are at increased risk for developing active TB and transmitting the disease to others (5).
In this report, the prevalence of skin-test positivity was higher among HIV- seronegative persons, suggesting that HIV-induced anergy might be obscuring the true prevalence of tuberculin positivity among those clients tested -- especially among IDUs in the northeastern United States, among whom HIV-seroprevalence levels of up to 49% have been reported in DTCs (6).
Anergy status was not collected in this project; however, CDC recommends that persons with known or suspected HIV infection be evaluated for anergy by testing with at least two companion antigens (e.g., tetanus toxoid, mumps, or Candida).
Anergic, tuberculin-negative persons from populations with a high prevalence of TB also should be considered for preventive therapy (7).
Since 1989, CDC has recommended 12 months of INH preventive therapy for all HIV-positive or HIV-status-unknown IDUs with greater than or equal to 5 mm of induration to the Mantoux tuberculin skin test and 6-12 months for all HIV-negative IDUs with greater than or equal to 10 mm of induration (8).
In a high proportion of clients, the HIV test either was not offered or was completed but the results not shared with the TB program.
All of the new active TB cases and nearly half of the TB suspects identified with known HIV status were HIV seropositive, reinforcing the importance of HIV infection as a risk factor for the development of TB.
Because of the high risk for HIV infection in persons in DTCs and CFs, and the need for longer preventive therapy among HIV-infected persons, HIV counseling and testing should be offered to all persons in these settings.
Procedures are being considered to enable sharing of HIV results with TB programs while protecting client confidentiality.
The highest priority in TB control and elimination is the identification and effective treatment of cases of active TB and the follow-up of persons exposed to infectious persons.
The next priority is providing screening and preventive therapy for persons at high risk for TB.
Efforts to screen populations at high risk for TB and ensure adherence to preventive therapy -- especially if such persons are not in a supervised setting -- are subject to substantial logistical impediments.
This project demonstrated that both DTCs and CFs succeeded in ensuring persons received skin testing and had the tests read.
However, efforts in CFs were more successful than DTCs in ensuring that persons with tuberculin reactions were evaluated.
Some project areas reported difficulty in scheduling appointments for DTC clients in health department TB clinics because of heavy existing caseloads.
Because of the extensive length of preventive therapy, substantial data on completion rates are not yet available, especially for DTCs.
Nonetheless, data indicate that CFs were especially successful in ensuring persons completed preventive therapy.
Although lower, the completion rate for DTCs was similar to the 68.8% rate that U.S.
health departments have reported achieving among close contacts of active TB cases (CDC, unpublished data, 1991).
For evaluation of this program, future analysis should include assessment of the proportion of persons with tuberculous infection who develop active TB after preventive therapy in relation to HIV serostatus and characterization of the facilities that were most successful in ensuring high-risk persons completed preventive therapy.
References CDC.
The use of preventive therapy for tuberculous infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1990;39(no.
RR-8):9-12.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in correctional institutions: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1989;38:313-20,325.
American Correctional Association.
Juvenile and adult correctional departments, institutions, agencies, and paroling authorities.
Laurel, Maryland: American Correctional Association, 1992:XXII.
National Institute on Drug Abuse.
National Drug and Alcoholism Treatment Unit Survey (NDATUS), 1989 main findings report.
Bethesda, Maryland: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration, 1990; DHHS publication no.
(ADM)91-1729.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545-50.
National HIV serosurveillance summary -- results through 1990.
Atlanta: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, 1992:13-5; publication no.
HIV/NCID/11-91/011.
Purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin anergy and HIV infection: guidelines for anergy testing and management of anergic persons at risk of tuberculosis.
MMWR 1991;40(no.
RR-5):27-33.
Tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1989;38:236-8,243-50.
Selection of these 25 sites was based on high levels of reported acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and TB cases.
The sites included Baltimore, California, Chicago, Connecticut, Detroit, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Houston/Harris County, Los Angeles County, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, New York City, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Puerto Rico, San Francisco, Texas, Virginia, and Washington.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports June 09, 2000 / 49(RR06);1-54 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Targeted Tuberculin Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection ATS/CDC Statement Committee on Latent Tuberculosis Infection Membership List, June 2000 Co-Chairs David L.
Denver Public Health Denver, CO Richard J.
O'Brien, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Writing Group Lawrence J.
Geiter, Ph.D.
Sequella Global Tuberculosis Foundation Rockville, MD Fred M.
Gordin, M.D.
VA Medical Center Washington, DC Earl Hershfield, M.D.
University of Manitoba Winnipeg, MB, Canada C.
Robert Horsburgh, Jr., M.D.
Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta, GA John A.
Jereb, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Theresa J.
Jordan, Ph.D.
New York University, New York, NY New Jersey Medical School National Tuberculosis Center Newark, NJ Jonathan E.
Kaplan, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Charles M.
Nolan, M.D.
Seattle-King County Department of Health Seattle, WA Jeffrey R.
Starke, M.D., Ph.D.
Texas Children's Hospital Houston, TX Zachary Taylor, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA M.
Elsa Villarino, M.D., M.P.H.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Members Nancy J.
Binkin, M.D., M.P.H.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Naomi N.
Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta, GA Kenneth G.
Castro, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Richard E.
Chaisson, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, MD George W.
Comstock, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University Hagerstown, MD Mark S.
Dworkin, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Wafaa El-Sadr, M.D., M.P.H.
Harlem Hospital Center New York, NY Paula I.
Fujiwara, M.D., M.P.H.
Bureau of Tuberculosis Control New York, NY Jeffrey C.
Glassroth, M.D.
University of Wisconsin Medical School Madison, WI Peter Godfrey-Faussett, M.D.
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine London, United Kingdom Mark J.
Goldberger, M.D., M.P.H.
Food and Drug Administration Rockville, MD James L.
Hadler, M.D., M.P.H.
Department of Public Health Hartford, CT Philip C.
Hopewell, M.D.
San Francisco General Hospital San Francisco, CA Michael D.
Iseman, M.D.
National Jewish Medical and Research Center Denver, CO Richard F.
Jacobs, M.D.
University of Arkansas Little Rock, AR Mack A.
University of Tennessee College of Medicine Memphis Memphis, TN Mark N.
Lobato, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Richard I.
Menzies, M.D.
Montreal Chest Hospital Montreal, PQ, Canada Giovanni B.
Migliori, M.D.
Fondazione Salvadore Maugeri Tradate, Italy Bess I.
Miller, M.D., M.Sc.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Alwyn Mwinga, M.D.
University Teaching Hospital Lukasa, Zambia Edward A.
Nardell, M.D.
Cambridge Hospital Cambridge, MA James Neaton, Ph.D.
University of Minnesota School of Public Health Minneapolis, MN Noreen L.
Qualls, Dr.P.H.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Lee B.
Reichman, M.D., M.P.H.
New Jersey Medical School Newark, NJ David N.
Long Island Jewish Hospital New Hyde Park, NY Shelley R.
Salpeter, M.D.
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center San Jose, CA Holger Sawert, M.D., M.P.H.
Ministry of Public Health Nonthaburi, Thailand Patricia M.
Simone, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Dixie E.
Snider, Jr., M.D., M.P.H.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Joel Tsevat, M.D., M.P.H.
University of Cincinnati Medical Center Cincinnati, OH Andrew A.
Vernon, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, GA Christopher C.
Whalen, M.D.
Case Western Reserve University Cleveland, OH Timothy C.
Wilcosky, Ph.D.
Research Triangle Institute Research Triangle Park, NC NOTICE This report is being published with the permission of the American Thoracic Society and as a courtesy to the MMWR readership.
It is an adaptation of a report published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine 2000;161:S221--S247.
Targeted Tuberculin Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection This Official Statement of the American Thoracic Society was adopted by the ATS Board of Directors, July 1999.
This is a Joint Statement of the American Thoracic Society (ATS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
This Statement was endorsed by the Council of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA), September 1999, and the sections of this Statement as it relates to infants and children were endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), August 1999.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This statement provides new recommendations for targeted tuberculin testing and treatment regimens for persons with latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) and updates previously published guidelines (1,2).
This statement is issued in recognition of the importance of these activities as an essential component of the TB Elimination Strategy promoted by the U.S.
Public Health Service Advisory Council on the Elimination of Tuberculosis, and reports the deliberations of expert consultants convened by the American Thoracic Society (ATS) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Isoniazid for 6--12 mo has been the mainstay of treatment for LTBI in the United States for more than 30 yr.
However, the application of isoniazid for LTBI has been limited because of poor adherence, due to the relatively long duration of treatment required, and because of concerns about toxicity.
Therefore, there has been interest in the development of shorter, rifampin-based regimens as alternatives to isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI.
During the past decade, a series of studies of "short-course" treatment of LTBI in persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has been undertaken.
The results of these trials have recently become available, and the in-depth analyses of these and prior studies of isoniazid form the scientific basis of the treatment guidelines presented in this report.
In addition, many changes to previous recommendations regarding testing for and treatment of LTBI are presented (Table 1).
Targeted Tuberculin Testing Targeted tuberculin testing for LTBI is a strategic component of tuberculosis (TB) control that identifies persons at high risk for developing TB who would benefit by treatment of LTBI, if detected.
Persons with increased risk for developing TB include those who have had recent infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and those who have clinical conditions that are associated with an increased risk for progression of LTBI to active TB (see Tables 2 and 3).
Following that principle, targeted tuberculin testing programs should be conducted only among groups at high risk and discouraged in those at low risk.
Infected persons who are considered to be at high risk for developing active TB should be offered treatment of LTBI irrespective of age.
For persons who are at highest risk for developing active TB if they are infected with M.
Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection In this report, treatment recommendations use an adaptation of the rating system from recent U.S.
Public Health Service documents (3) that grades the strength of the recommendation (A, B, or C) and the quality of evidence supporting the recommendation (I, II, or III).
Four regimens are recommended for the treatment of adults with LTBI.
(See Tables 8 and 10 for detailed recommendations, dosages, and contraindications.) The isoniazid daily regimen for 9 mo is recommended because prospective, randomized trials in HIV-negative persons indicate that 12 mo of treatment is more effective than 6 mo of treatment.
However, in subgroup analyses of several trials the maximal beneficial effect of isoniazid is likely achieved by 9 mo, and minimal additional benefit is gained by extending therapy to 12 mo.
When compared with placebo, both 6-mo and 12-mo regimens are effective in HIV-positive patients; however, these regimens have not been compared with each other in randomized trials.
Although a 9-mo regimen of isoniazid is the preferred regimen for the treatment of LTBI, a 6-mo regimen also provides substantial protection and has been shown to be superior to placebo in both HIV-negative and HIV-positive persons.
In some situations, treatment for 6 mo rather than 9 mo may provide a more favorable outcome from a cost-effectiveness standpoint.
Thus, based on local conditions, health departments or providers may conclude that a 6-mo rather than a 9-mo course of isoniazid is preferred.
Both the 9-mo and 6-mo isoniazid regimens may be given intermittently (i.e., twice weekly).
When isoniazid is given intermittently, it should be administered only as directly observed therapy (DOT).
The 2-mo daily regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide is recommended on the basis of a prospective randomized trial of treatment of LTBI in HIV-infected persons that showed the 2-mo regimen to be similar in safety and efficacy to a 12-mo regimen of isoniazid.
Twice-weekly treatment with rifampin and pyrazinamide for 2 or 3 mo may be considered when alternative regimens cannot be given.
This intermittent regimen should always be administered as DOT.
Some experts recommend that the 2-mo regimen of daily rifampin and pyrazinamide also be given by DOT, which can consist of five observed and two self-administered doses each week.
In situations in which rifampin cannot be used (e.g., HIV-infected persons receiving protease inhibitors), rifabutin may be substituted.
Rifampin given daily for 4 mo is recommended on the basis of the efficacy of a similar regimen in a) a prospective randomized trial of tuberculin-positive persons with silicosis and b) a nonrandomized trial in persons exposed to individuals with isoniazid-resistant TB.
This option may be especially useful for patients who cannot tolerate isoniazid or pyrazinamide.
Before beginning treatment of LTBI, active TB should be ruled out by history, physical examination, chest radiography, and, when indicated, bacteriologic studies.
Special considerations for treatment of LTBI apply to the following populations: When isoniazid is chosen for treatment of LTBI in persons with HIV infection or those with radiographic evidence of prior TB, 9 mo rather that 6 mo is recommended.
For pregnant, HIV-negative women, isoniazid given daily or twice weekly for 9 or 6 mo is recommended.
For women at risk for progression of LTBI to disease, especially those who are infected with HIV or who have likely been infected recently, initiation of therapy should not be delayed on the basis of pregnancy alone, even during the first trimester.
For women whose risk for active TB is lower, some experts recommend waiting until after delivery to start treatment.
For children and adolescents, isoniazid given either daily or twice weekly for 9 mo is the recommended regimen.
For contacts of patients with isoniazid-resistant, rifampin-susceptible TB, rifampin and pyrazinamide given daily for 2 mo is recommended, and for patients with intolerance to pyrazinamide, rifampin given daily for 4 mo is recommended.
For persons who are likely to be infected with isoniazid- and rifampin-resistant (multidrug) TB and who are at high risk for developing TB, pyrazinamide and ethambutol or pyrazinamide and a quinolone (i.e., levofloxacin or ofloxacin) for 6--12 mo are recommended.
Immunocompetent contacts may be observed or treated for at least 6 mo, and immunocompromised contacts (e.g., HIV-infected persons) should be treated for 12 mo.
Clinical and Laboratory Monitoring Once patients have been identified and then tested for LTBI, they should receive an initial clinical evaluation.
They should also receive follow-up evaluations at least monthly (if receiving isoniazid alone or rifampin alone) and at 2, 4, and 8 wk (if receiving rifampin and pyrazinamide).
This evaluation should include questioning about side effects and a brief physical assessment checking for signs of hepatitis.
Patients should be educated about the side effects associated with treatment of LTBI and advised to stop treatment and promptly seek medical evaluation when they occur.
Baseline laboratory testing is not routinely indicated for all patients at the start of treatment for LTBI (see Table 8).
Baseline testing is also indicated for patients with HIV infection, pregnant women, and women in the im mediate postpartum period (i.e., within 3 mo of delivery), persons with a history of chronic liver disease (e.g., hepatitis B or C, alcoholic hepatitis, or cirrhosis), persons who use alcohol regularly, and persons at risk for chronic liver disease.
Baseline testing is not routinely indicated in older persons.
However, such testing may be considered on an individual basis, particularly for patients who are taking other medications for chronic medical conditions.
Active hepatitis and end-stage liver disease are relative contraindications to the use of isoniazid or pyrazinamide for treatment of LTBI.
Routine laboratory monitoring during treatment of LTBI is indicated for persons whose baseline liver function tests are abnormal and other persons at risk for hepatic disease.
Laboratory testing may also be indicated for the evaluation of possible adverse effects that occur during the course of treatment (e.g., liver function studies for patients with symptoms compatible with hepatotoxicity or a uric acid measurement to evaluate complaints of joint pain).
Some experts recommend that isoniazid should be withheld if transaminase levels exceed three times the upper limit of normal if associated with symptoms and five times the upper limit of normal if the patient is asymptomatic.
INTRODUCTION History of Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection and Relevance to Tuberculosis Control For more than three decades, treatment of persons with latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection (LTBI) to prevent the development of active disease has been an essential component of tuberculosis (TB) control in the United States (4).
In the United States and other countries with a low incidence of TB, most new, active cases have occurred among persons who were once infected, contained this infection, and then later developed active TB (5).
The identification and treatment of infected persons at highest risk for developing disease benefit both infected persons and susceptible persons in their communities.
Until recently, isoniazid was the only drug proven effective and thus recommended for treatment of LTBI.
Shortly after isoniazid was found to be effective for the treatment of TB, clinical trials were begun to assess the ability of the drug to prevent progression of primary disease in children.
When it was found that this intervention was highly effective, larger trials were begun to evaluate the drug for treatment of infected contacts of TB patients and of other persons at high risk (e.g., those with radiographic evidence of prior, untreated TB) (6).
In 1965, isoniazid treatment of LTBI was first recommended for general use by the American Thoracic Society (ATS) (7).
This initial statement recommended isoniazid for persons with evidence of previously untreated TB and persons with recent tuberculin skin test conversions, including all children younger than 3 yr of age with a positive tuberculin skin test.
The recommendations stated that chemoprophylaxis is mandatory for a) persons with inactive cases of TB who were not previously treated and their contacts, b) persons with tuberculin skin test conversions, c) persons with specified medical conditions, and d) all persons younger than 20 yr of age who had had positive tuberculin skin tests (8).
However, despite this belief, the goal of reducing TB morbidity by such a substantial percentage through the administration of isoniazid was never reached.
In 1970, among several thousand persons who began isoniazid treatment as a result of an outbreak of TB on Capitol Hill in the District of Columbia, 19 persons developed clinical signs of liver disease and two persons died of hepatic failure attributed to isoniazid (9).
The recognition that isoniazid was associated with potentially fatal hepatitis led to the development of guidelines regarding pretreatment screening and monitoring to minimize the risk for severe complications (10).
In 1974, following a study to quantify the risk for isoniazid-related hepatitis (11), guidelines for treatment of LTBI were updated.
The revised guidelines excluded low-risk persons aged older than 35 yr of age as candidates for treatment (12).
Subsequent controversy over the appropriate age cut-off for these low-risk, tuberculin-positive persons ensued, with one group concluding that the risks of treatment of LTBI outweighed the benefits for young adults (13).
This controversy and resulting confusion led to a decrease in the use of isoniazid for treating persons with LTBI---even persons at high risk for whom treatment was indicated (14).
In 1983, the guidelines were further revised to recommend routine clinical and laboratory monitoring for persons aged older than 35 yr of age and other persons at risk for hepatotoxicity (15).
Recent studies have suggested that since the advent of routine monitoring, the risk for severe hepatotoxicity has been substantially reduced (16).
Because widespread use and the potential impact of isoniazid treatment of LTBI became limited by actual and perceived toxicity and patient nonadherence because of the relatively long period of treatment required, alternatives to isoniazid were suggested (17).
The introduction of rifampin, which appeared to be a better sterilizing agent than isoniazid, suggested the possibility that rifampin-based regimens might be safer, more effective, and shorter.
The occurrence of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic and the need to evaluate the efficacy of treatment for LTBI in persons coinfected with HIV and M.
tuberculosis led to a series of studies of short-course treatment of LTBI in HIV-infected persons (18).
The results of these studies have recently become available and have contributed substantially to guidelines on treatment of LTBI in persons with HIV infection (3).
Relationship of Tuberculin Testing to Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection As the rate of active TB in the United States has decreased, identification and treatment of persons with latent infection who are at high risk for active TB have become essential components of the TB elimination strategy promoted by the PHS Advisory Council on the Elimination of Tuberculosis (19).
Because testing persons for infection and provision of treatment are interrelated, these recommendations include sections on program activities aimed at identifying high-risk infected persons and tuberculin skin testing, as well as recommendations on the use of new, short-course treatment regimens.
Change in Nomenclature Identification of persons with LTBI has previously been accomplished by widespread tuberculin skin testing of individuals or groups at variable risk for TB.
In many situations, this screening was done with limited consideration of the risk for TB in the population(s) being tested.
To focus on groups at the highest risk for TB, the term "targeted tuberculin testing" is used in these guidelines to encourage directed program activities.
Although the terms "preventive therapy" and "chemoprophylaxis" have been used for decades, they have also been confusing.
"Preventive therapy" has referred to the use of a simple regimen (usually isoniazid) to prevent the development of active TB disease in persons known or likely to be infected with M.
tuberculosis, but it rarely results in true primary prevention (i.e., prevention of infection in persons exposed to persons with infectious TB).
To describe the intended intervention more accurately, this report uses the terminology "treatment of LTBI" rather than "preventive therapy" or "chemoprophylaxis." This change in nomenclature will hopefully promote greater understanding of the concept for both patients and providers, resulting in more widespread implementation of this essential TB control strategy.
SCIENTIFIC RATIONALE Targeted Tuberculin Testing Groups at Risk and Risk Factors for Infection with M.
tuberculosis Targeted tuberculin testing for LTBI identifies persons at high risk for TB who would benefit by treatment of LTBI, if detected.
Persons at high risk for TB (i.e., risk substantially greater than that of the general U.S.
population) have either been infected recently with M.
tuberculosis or have clinical conditions that are associated with an increased risk of progression of LTBI to active TB (Tables 2 and 3).
Screening of low-risk persons and testing for administrative purposes (e.g., certification of school teachers) should be replaced by targeted testing.
Persons or groups with presumed recent M.
tuberculosis infection.
Persons infected with M.
tuberculosis are at greatest risk for developing disease shortly after infection has occurred (Table 2).
In two controlled trials examining the efficacy of treatment of LTBI among contacts of persons with active TB and among patients in mental hospitals, the tuberculin skin tests of 1472 participants in the placebo groups of the trials converted from negative to positive.
Among persons whose tests converted, 19 developed disease in the first year of follow-up (12.9 cases per 1000 person-years) compared with 17 persons in the subsequent 7 yr of follow-up (1.6 cases per 1,000 person-years) (6).
In a study of TB vaccines given to British schoolchildren, 2550 unvaccinated participants' tuberculin skin tests converted.
Of these, 121 (4.7%) developed clinical TB within 15 yr of entry into the study: 54% developed disease during the first year after infection and 82% developed disease within 2 yr of infection (20).
In designing and planning targeted testing programs, several groups of persons can be identified as being at increased risk for being recently infected with M.
tuberculosis.
A high prevalence of either LTBI or active TB has been documented among close contacts of persons with infectious pulmonary TB (21); both of these characteristics are likely attributable to recent contact with infectious persons.
Likewise, persons whose tuberculin skin tests convert from negative to positive within a period of 2 yr are presumed to have been infected recently.
Persons who have immigrated from areas of the world with high rates of TB have incidence rates that approach those of their countries of origin for the first several years after arrival in the United States (22).
This high rate likely results from infection with M.
tuberculosis in the native country before immigration and progression to disease soon after arrival in the United States.
This hypothesis is supported by a) DNA fingerprinting studies with restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) interpreted to correlate with low rates of recent transmission of TB among foreign-born case patients in the United States (23) and b) other data indicating that with time, the incidence of TB in foreign-born persons declines to approach that of the U.S.
population (24).
Children, especially those younger than 5 yr of age, who have a positive tuberculin skin test are likely to be in the early stage of LTBI and are at high risk for progression to active disease, with the potential for disseminated TB (25).
The risk for developing active TB is also increased in adolescents and young adults (25).
Recent U.S.
studies (including RFLP studies) have helped characterize certain epidemiologically defined groups of persons with high rates of TB transmission and increased risk for being recently infected (e.g., homeless persons, those with HIV infection, and injection drug users) (23,26).
However, the risk for transmission varies greatly, and the likelihood that a specific institution is a site of transmission of M.
tuberculosis can be determined only by local epidemiological data.
Clinical conditions associated with progression to active tuberculosis.
HIV infection contributes most to an increased risk for progression of LTBI to active TB.
Rates of progression to TB among HIV-infected persons have ranged from 35 to 162 per 1000 person-years of observation (Table 2) (28).
In a prospective cohort study of persons with HIV infection in the United States, the annual risk of active-TB among persons with a positive tuberculin test was 45 cases per 1000 person-years (29).
Injection drug users also have an increased risk for progressing to active TB (10 cases per 1000 person-years) (30), and this risk is even greater for injection drug users coinfected with HIV and TB (76 cases per 1000 person-years) (31).
These higher rates may reflect increased transmission, more recent infection in this population, and the increased risk associated with injection drug use and HIV infection.
The risk for active TB is also increased in a) persons with pulmonary fibrotic lesions seen on chest radiographs (presumed to be from prior, untreated TB) and b) underweight persons.
Persons with fibrotic lesions on chest radiographs consistent with prior, healed TB have a risk for progression to active TB of 2.0--13.6 per 1000 person-years of observation (32--34).
A study of 23,541 U.S.
Studies indicate that several other clinical conditions increase the risk for active TB, although participants in these studies were not stratified by tuberculin-test status (Table 3).
Tuberculin-positive persons with silicosis have an approximately 30-fold greater risk for developing TB (36--38).
Persons with chronic renal failure who are on hemodialysis also have an increased risk: 10--25 times greater than the general population (39--41).
Persons with diabetes mellitus have a risk for developing active TB that is twofold to fourfold greater than persons without diabetes mellitus, and this risk is likely greater in persons with insulin-dependent or poorly controlled diabetes (42--44).
Persons receiving prolonged therapy with corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents may be at risk for reactivation of TB, but the exact risk is unknown (1).
Reactivation of TB is more likely to occur in persons receiving higher doses of corticosteroids for prolonged periods of time, especially in populations at high risk for TB, but specific thresholds of dose and duration that could increase the risk for TB are unknown (58).
Persons who use alcohol may be at increased risk for acquiring or developing TB, but given the many other potential risk factors that commonly occur among such persons, alcohol use has been difficult to identify as a separate risk factor for TB (2,42,59,60).
Operational Considerations In A Strategic Plan for the Elimination of Tuberculosis in The United States, published by CDC in 1989 (61), the responsibility for detection and treatment of LTBI in high-risk groups was assigned directly to public health agencies.
At that time, the administration of skin tests, interpretation of test results, and intensive follow-up required to ensure adherence with and to prevent side effects of isoniazid treatment were believed to be beyond the scope of most private health care providers.
However, in 1995, CDC published recommendations on targeted testing and treatment of LTBI that emphasized the importance of health departments in assisting local providers in the development, implementation, and evaluation of TB screening programs appropriate for their communities (2).
This recommendation was based on the recognition that changes in the organization, delivery, and financing of health care in the United States have led to most routine tuberculin testing being done outside of the public health system (62).
For example, populations that previously received clinical services, including diagnosis of LTBI, at public health clinics are now increasingly being enrolled as members of managed care organizations.
Because health departments might lack access to high-risk populations and the resources necessary to undertake targeted testing programs, the participation of other health care providers is essential to ensure the successful implementation of community efforts to prevent TB in high-risk groups.
Community sites where persons at high risk may be accessed and where targeted testing programs have been evaluated include neighborhood health centers (63), jails (64), homeless shelters (65), inner-city sites (66), methadone (67) and syringe/needle-exchange programs (68), and other community-based social service organizations (69).
Diagnosis of Latent Tuberculosis Infection Tuberculin Skin Testing The tuberculin skin test is the only proven method for identifying infection with M.
tuberculosis in persons who do not have TB disease.
tuberculosis, no better diagnostic methods have yet been devised.
Proper use of the tuberculin skin test requires knowledge of the antigen used (tuberculin), the immunologic basis for the reaction to this antigen, the technique(s) of administering and reading the test, and the results of epidemiologic and clinical experience with the test.
Detailed information on these topics is provided in the ATS/CDC Statement Diagnostic Standards and Classification of Tuberculosis in Adults and Children (70).
Immunologic basis for the tuberculin reaction.
Infection with M.
tuberculosis produces a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to certain antigenic components (tuberculins) that are contained in extract of culture filtrate of the organism.
Purified protein derivative (PPD) tuberculin, which is used for most skin testing, is isolated from culture filtrate by protein precipitation.
The reaction to intracutaneously injected tuberculin is a delayed-type (cellular) hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction, and infection by M.
tuberculosis usually results in a DTH response to PPD tuberculin that is detectable 2--12 wk after infection (71).
However, a DTH reaction to PPD tuberculin may also indicate infection with various nontuberculous mycobacteria or vaccination with Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), a live attenuated mycobacterial strain derived from Mycobacterium bovis.
Delayed hypersensitivity reactions to tuberculin usually begin 56 h after injection, reach a maximum at 48--72 h, and subside over a period of a few days, although positive reactions often persist for up to 1 wk (72).
Sensitivity and specificity of skin-test reactions.
Knowledge of tuberculin-test sensitivity and specificity, as well as positive predictive value, is required to interpret skin-test reactions properly.
For persons with LTBI and normal immune responsiveness, test sensitivity approaches 100% (73).
However, false-positive tuberculin tests occur in persons who have been infected with nontuberculous mycobacteria and in persons who have received BCG vaccine.
These false-positive reactions result in a lower specificity and a low positive predictive value in persons who have a low probability of LTBI.
The general U.S.
population currently has an estimated M.
tuberculosis infection rate of 5--10%, and children entering school in many areas of the country have a 0.1--1% prevalence of infection.
Even if the test has a specificity approaching 99%, testing of persons in such low-prevalence groups would result in most positive tests being false-positive tests (71).
However, the specificity of the test is also dependent on the criterion used to define a "positive" test.
The specificity can be improved by progressively increasing the reaction size that separates positive from negative reactors (at the expense of decreasing test sensitivity) (73).
Previous BCG vaccination.
Intracutaneous inoculation with BCG is currently used in many parts of the world as a vaccine against tuberculosis.
Tuberculin reactivity caused by BCG vaccination generally wanes with the passage of time but can be boosted by the tuberculin skin test.
Periodic skin testing may prolong reactivity to tuberculin in vaccinated persons (74).
HIV infection and anergy testing.
HIV-infected persons may have a compromised ability to react to tuberculin skin tests because of cutaneous anergy associated with progressive HIV immunosuppression (76).
However, the usefulness of anergy testing in selecting tuberculin-negative, HIV-infected persons who might benefit from treatment of LTBI has not been demonstrated (77).
Chest Radiographs In persons with LTBI, the chest radiograph is usually normal, although it may show abnormalities suggestive of prior TB.
Previous, healed TB can produce various radiographic findings that usually differ from those associated with active TB.
Dense pulmonary nodules, with or without visible calcification, may be seen in the hilar area or upper lobes.
Smaller nodules, with or without fibrotic scars, are often seen in the upper lobes, and upper-lobe volume loss often accompanies these scars.
Nodules and fibrotic lesions of previous, healed TB have well-demarcated, sharp margins and are often described as "hard." Bronchiectasis of the upper lobes is a nonspecific finding that sometimes occurs from previous pulmonary TB.
Pleural scarring may be caused by prior TB but is more commonly caused by trauma or other infections.
Nodules and fibrotic scars may contain slowly multiplying tubercle bacilli with substantial potential for future progression to active TB (32).
Conversely, calcified nodular lesions (calcified granulomas) and apical or basal pleural thickening pose a lower risk for future progression to active TB.
Sputum Examinations The presumptive diagnosis of active pulmonary TB is often made on the basis of microscopic examination of a stained sputum smear for acid-fast bacilli (AFB).
Confirmation of the diagnosis usually requires identification of M.
tuberculosis in culture.
In asymptomatic persons with normal chest radiographs, AFB are rarely seen on sputum smear examination, and tubercle bacilli are not found in cultures of respiratory specimens.
However, some HIV-infected persons with sputum culture-positive TB have been described as having normal chest radiographs.
Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection Isoniazid Experimental studies.
Before clinical trials of isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI were begun in the United States, its efficacy was demonstrated in guinea pigs.
In a study conducted by PHS, guinea pigs receiving varying doses of isoniazid were challenged with virulent tubercle bacilli (78).
Those animals receiving a daily dosage of at least 5 mg/kg were protected (i.e., survival was comparable to control animals who were not challenged with the bacillus).
On the basis of these studies, the dose of 5 mg/kg was chosen for clinical studies in humans.
Clinical trials in HIV-negative persons.
Many randomized, controlled clinical trials of isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI were conducted in the 1950s and 1960s (6).
These trials were conducted in seven countries, both industrialized and developing, and involved more than 100,000 participants at risk for TB, including children with primary TB, contacts of active case patients, persons who had had tuberculin skin reactions, institutionalized patients with mental disease, and persons with inactive TB.
Most studies compared 12 mo of isoniazid with placebo.
The outcomes measured in these studies included progression of primary TB, tuberculin conversion in uninfected contacts, prevention of TB in infected persons, and recurrence of disease.
The effectiveness of treatment, as measured by the decrease in TB among all persons participating in these trials, varied from 25 to 92%.
However, when analysis was restricted to persons who were compliant with the medication, the protective efficacy was approximately 90%.
Substantial protection was conferred even if pill taking was irregular but sustained, suggesting the possibility that intermittent treatment may be efficacious.
Only one trial, conducted by the International Union Against Tuberculosis (IUAT) (32), was designed to evaluate various durations of isoniazid.
In this trial, a placebo regimen was compared with isoniazid regimens lasting for 3, 6, and 12 mo among persons with fibrotic pulmonary lesions consistent with inactive TB.
The 5-yr incidence rates of tuberculosis were 1.43% for placebo compared with 1.13, 0.50, and 0.36% for the 3-, 6-, and 12-mo regimens, respectively (Table 4).
The rates indicated a 65% effectiveness for the 6-mo isoniazid regimen and 75% effectiveness for the 12-mo regimen; persons who received 6 mo of isoniazid had a 40% higher risk for TB compared with those who received 12 mo of therapy.
In this subgroup, which constituted 78% of the entire study population, the resulting 5-yr incidence rates were 1.5% for persons receiving placebo compared with 1.0, 0.5, and 0.1% for the 3-, 6-, and 12-mo regimens, respectively.
In this analysis, isoniazid taken for 6 mo was 69% efficacious and for 12 mo was 93% efficacious; participants on the 6-mo regimen had a fourfold higher risk for TB than those on the 12-mo regimen.
The 12-mo regimen provided a substantial reduction in risk compared with the 6-mo regimen among compliant persons with small lesions (Table 4).
Additional information on the efficacy and effectiveness of different lengths of therapy with isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI has been derived from a randomized study of household contacts conducted by PHS (21).
The same data can be further examined to determine whether reduction in the rate of TB was affected more by duration of therapy or the amount of medication.
The effectiveness of isoniazid decreased slightly for less compliant patients who took 40--79% of the prescribed medication during the 10-mo period (52--57% reduction compared to 68% reduction), suggesting that even an intermittent treatment regimen would be effective if taken for at least 10 mo (Table 5).
Effectiveness data from the IUAT study, published data on isoniazid-associated hepatitis, and cost information obtained from a survey of U.S.
TB programs were used to assess the cost effectiveness of various durations of isoniazid (81).
The cost per case of TB prevented with the 6-mo regimen was determined to be half of the cost as either the 3-mo or 12-mo regimens.
This cost-effectiveness analysis was largely responsible for the widespread adoption of the 6-mo regimen of isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI in HIV-seronegative persons with normal chest radiographs (82).
However, the protection conferred by taking at least 9 mo of isoniazid is greater than that conferred by taking 6 mo; it is not likely that further protection is conferred by extending the duration of treatment from 9 to 12 mo (80).
Clinical trials in HIV-positive persons.
Seven randomized, controlled trials have evaluated different regimens for the treatment of LTBI infection in persons with HIV infection (Table 6).
Five of these studies evaluated isoniazid regimens using comparison groups that either received a placebo or were not actively treated.
In the first study, conducted in Haiti during 1986--1992, 12 mo of daily isoniazid resulted in a substantial reduction in TB (83%) among tuberculin-positive persons (83).
Protection was constant over the 4 yr of follow-up after treatment.
Two other studies, which evaluated 6 mo of isoniazid taken daily by tuberculin-positive persons, had differing results: the drug provided a significant level of protection in Uganda (68%) (84) but did not provide a significant level of protection in Kenya (40%) (85).
A fourth study evaluated a 6-mo, twice-weekly regimen of isoniazid in both tuberculin-positive and - negative persons in Zambia (86).
The overall level of protection was minimal but significant (38%).
Although the level of protection among tuberculin-positive persons was higher (70%), it was not significant because of the limited number of persons in this group.
The Uganda study also evaluated the 6-mo regimen of daily isoniazid in anergic persons, as did the fifth study conducted in the United States (87).
In both studies, the level of protection against TB was low, and neither study demonstrated a significant level of protection.
Additional evaluations of isoniazid were conducted in tuberculin-negative persons who were not assessed for anergy (83,85,86).
The level of protection provided by isoniazid among this population was not significant in any of the studies.
Thus, for HIV-infected persons, treatment should be targeted at tuberculin-positive persons.
A recently published metaanalysis of these trials supports this conclusion (88).
Safety and tolerability.
In 1965, when isoniazid was first recommended in the United States for treatment of LTBI, it was not thought to cause severe toxicity.
In the PHS studies conducted among TB contacts, the percentage of persons stopping treatment because of suspected drug reactions was low and approximately equivalent for the placebo and isoniazid groups (21).
The occurrence of hepatitis was rare and was not assumed to be caused by isoniazid.
However, studies conducted in the late 1960s suggested that isoniazid did cause hepatitis and indicated that asymptomatic increase in hepatic transaminases occurred among persons receiving the drug (89).
It was not until the 1970s, when several persons receiving isoniazid for LTBI died from hepatitis, that the likelihood of isoniazid hepatitis was understood (9).
The largest and most comprehensive study of isoniazid hepatitis was conducted by PHS during 1971--1972 (11).
In this survey, nearly 14,000 persons who received isoniazid were monitored for the development of hepatitis.
The overall rate of probable isoniazid hepatitis was 1%, but it was age related, with no cases occurring among persons younger than 20 yr of age and the highest rate (2.3%) occurring among persons older than 50 yr of age.
An association of hepatitis also was found with alcohol consumption, with rates being fourfold higher among persons consuming alcohol daily than among those who did not drink alcohol.
Rates among males and females were equivalent and were lower among black males and higher among Asian males compared with rates among white males.
Hepatitis rates were lower among participants in the IUAT trial, although the same positive association with age was observed (32).
In the PHS surveillance study, eight deaths from hepatitis occurred among the participants, seven of which were among persons living in Baltimore.
Several years after completion of the study, a review of death certificates showed a marked increase in deaths from cirrhosis during 1972 in Baltimore and surrounding counties, suggesting that another cofactor may have been associated with the cluster of deaths observed in the study (90).
A comprehensive analysis of deaths from isoniazid-associated hepatitis in the United States found that women may be at increased risk of death (91).
Other reports have suggested that the risk for isoniazid-associated hepatitis may be increased by the administration of the drug to pregnant women in the third trimester and the immediate postpartum period (92) or by the concomitant administration of acetaminophen (93).
Although experimental evidence suggests that acetaminophen hepatotoxicity is potentiated by isoniazid (94), a more detailed study of deaths from isoniazid-associated hepatitis did not implicate acetaminophen as a factor (95).
Isoniazid-related deaths continue to be reported.
However, the likelihood of this occurrence can be greatly reduced by careful monthly monitoring and stopping of medication if symptoms occur (96).
In a recent study, seven of eight patients receiving a liver transplant following the development of fulminant, isoniazid-related hepatitis continued to take the drug for a least 10 d after onset of symptoms of hepatotoxicity (97).
Following the PHS surveillance study, guidelines on the use of isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI were revised to recommend that low-risk persons older than 35 year of age with reactive tuberculin skin tests not be treated, that no more than 1 mo drug supply be issued at a time, and that monthly questioning and education about signs and symptoms of hepatitis should be routine (12).
The guidelines were further revised to recommend baseline and periodic liver-function tests for persons at risk for hepatotoxicity, including persons aged 35 yr of age or older (15).
More recently, a survey found that many public health TB clinics now use clinical, rather than biochemical, monitoring for hepatotoxicity during treatment of LTBI (98).
Clinical monitoring is based on educating patients about the symptoms of hepatotoxicity and instructing them to stop treatment immediately if such symptoms occur and to report to the clinician for evaluation.
After using clinical monitoring exclusively, one public health TB clinic reported only 11 cases of clinical hepatotoxicity (one of which required hospitalization) and no deaths among more than 11,000 persons with LTBI during isoniazid treatment over a 7-yr period (99).
Based on this emerging experience with clinical monitoring, some authorities have called for the establishment of new recommendations for drug toxicity monitoring "that are congruent with established therapeutic/toxicity relationships" (98).
Recent studies of isoniazid treatment of LTBI in HIV-infected persons have demonstrated that the medication was well tolerated and not associated with substantial increases in hepatic side effects.
In a recent meta-analysis of placebo-controlled trials, adverse drug reactions were slightly but not significantly more common among persons receiving isoniazid (88).
Despite the high efficacy and relative safety of isoniazid treatment for LTBI, its use has been frequently debated; much literature has been published regarding whether and when to prescribe isoniazid (13,100102).
However, because the arguments em bodied in that literature emerged more than two decades ago, in a different environmental context with different risks and contingencies, its appropriateness to current circumstances is uncertain.
Although the likelihood that a patient treated with isoniazid would develop hepatitis was low, it presented a valid argument against the use of isoniazid among persons who had no increased risk for developing active TB.
Most of the arguments concerning the use of this drug, which appeared from the 1970s through the early 1980s, focused on persons at low risk for reacting to tuberculin, primarily those 35 yr of age or older who were likely at higher risk for isoniazid-associated hepatitis than younger patients.
Because the debate over whether to prescribe or withhold isoniazid for persons older than 35 yr of age at low risk for reacting to tuberculin involved a trade-off between risk for developing active TB versus risk for developing isoniazid-induced hepatitis, decision analysis was used by most investigators (103).
Despite many analyses, the decision to treat persons at low risk for reacting to tuberculin at any age continued to be controversial.
Although various analyses supported both sides of the debate, none of the calculated benefits of isoniazid was substantial.
Short-course Regimens Experimental studies in animals.
Because of high rates of nonadherence with the long duration of isoniazid (i.e., 6--12 mo) and the rare occurrence of fatal isoniazid hepatitis, short-course, rifampin-containing treatment regimens have recently been evaluated.
The studies evaluating rifampin were based on data from several studies in mouse models of chronic TB.
One study compared isoniazid with regimens of rifampin alone; rifampin and pyrazinamide; and isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide (104).
The rifampin-only regimen sterilized lung and spleen tissues within 4 mo, and the combination of rifampin and pyrazinamide sterilized tissues within 2 mo.
The isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide regimen was of intermediate efficacy, taking longer than the rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen to sterilize tissues.
The isoniazid regimen had not sterilized tissues by the end of 6 mo.
The apparent superiority of the rifampin--pyrazinamide regimen over the regimen containing the same two drugs plus isoniazid might be explained by impaired absorption of rifampin when given simultaneously with other drugs in mice (105).
Support for this hypothesis came from a study using a Cornell mouse model (106) that compared 6-wk regimens of rifampin, rifampin--isoniazid, rifampin--pyrazinamide, and rifampin-- pyrazinamide--isoniazid, with delayed administration of rifampin when given with other drugs.
The efficacy of all three regimens was similar, with trend toward a lower colony count in spleens of animals given more drugs, and lower colony counts in the lungs of mice given rifampin--isoniazid.
Experimental studies have also suggested that rifabutin alone, taken daily, and rifabutin--isoniazid, taken twice weekly, may effectively treat LTBI in 3 mo (107).
Clinical trials in HIV-negative persons.
The only randomized clinical trial to evaluate rifampin-containing regimens among HIV-seronegative persons was conducted in tuberculin-positive persons with silicosis in Hong Kong (36).
In this study, daily regimens of 6 mo of isoniazid, 3 mo of rifampin, or 3 mo of isoniazid and rifampin were compared with a 6-mo placebo control.
Analyzing only those patients who were assumed to be compliant yielded an estimate of efficacy in preventing TB of 63% for the 3-mo rifampin regimen, 48% for the 6-mo isoniazid regimen, and 41% for the 3-mo isoniazid--rifampin regimen.
All of these differences were significantly different from the placebo regimen but were not statistically different from each other.
The annual incidence rate was about 7% per year in the placebo group and about 4% per year in the three active-treatment regimens combined.
The largest programmatic experience using rifampin-based treatment of LTBI comes from Blackburn, England, where children at increased risk of TB have been treated with daily rifampin--isoniazid since 1981 (108).
During 1981--1996, the treatment duration was shortened from 9 to 3 mo, and the proportion of pediatric TB case patients as a percentage of all reported cases decreased from 25 to 4%.
Although not a controlled clinical trial, these data suggest that this intervention has been highly effective in reducing the rate of childhood TB in this city.
Thus, this regimen is currently recommended for the treatment of both adults and children with LTBI in the United Kingdom (109).
Clinical trials in HIV-positive persons.
Most clinical trials of rifampin-based treatment of LTBI have been conducted among HIV-infected persons (Table 6); two were placebo controlled.
The Uganda study also evaluated regimens of isoniazid--rifampin and isoniazid--rifampin--pyrazinamide taken daily for 3 mo in tuberculin-positive persons (84).
The isoniazid--rifampin regimen provided 59% protection, and the three-drug regimen with pyrazinamide provided 57% protection---levels similar to those provided by 6 mo of isoniazid alone.
The Zambia study also evaluated a self-administered regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide taken twice weekly for 3 mo (86).
The level of protection was 42%, similar to that conferred by the 6-mo, twice-weekly isoniazid regimen.
Among tuberculin-positive persons, the level of protection conferred by rifampin and pyrazinamide was 70%, comparable with that conferred by 6 mo of isoniazid taken twice weekly, but not statistically significant.
In two trials, rifampin and pyrazinamide regimens have been compared with regimens of isoniazid alone in tuberculin-positive persons.
A second study conducted in Haiti during 1990--1994 compared twice-weekly regimens of 6 mo of isoniazid and 2 mo of rifampin and pyrazinamide, with half of the doses directly observed (110).
Protection at 12 mo was similar in the two groups, and, compared with the rate of TB observed among patients who received placebo in the earlier Haiti trial, the twice-weekly regimens were estimated to have reduced the risk for TB by approximately 80%.
A multinational study comparing a 12-mo regimen of isoniazid taken daily with a 2-mo regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide taken daily was conducted in the United States, Haiti, Brazil, and Mexico (111).
A total of 1583 patients were enrolled and followed for an average of 3 yr.
The annual risk of culture-confirmed TB was 0.8% for patients assigned the 2-mo regimen and 1.1% for patients assigned the 12-mo isoniazid regimen, a difference that was not significant.
In conclusion, as evidenced by the large multinational study, a 2-mo regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide taken daily provides protection against TB equivalent to a 12-mo regimen of isoniazid taken daily.
The data supporting the use of a twice-weekly rifampin and pyrazinamide treatment regimen are less conclusive.
The only study that has evaluated a rifampin-alone regimen, the Hong Kong study in persons with silicosis, suggests that daily rifampin for 3 mo provides similar protection to that conferred from 6 mo of isoniazid (36).
In the Uganda study, 3-mo regimens of a) isoniazid and rifampin and b) isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide provided protection equivalent to that of 6 mo of isoniazid (84).
All of the studies of treatment of LTBI in HIV-infected persons included death and/or progression of HIV disease as endpoints.
In the earlier Haiti study, isoniazid likely conferred protection against progression of HIV disease among tuberculin-positive sub jects (83).
In the multinational study, persons receiving the 2-mo regimen had lower mortality rates and less progression of HIV disease, although these differences were not statistically significant (111).
In none of the other studies was active treatment protective against death or HIV progression.
Safety and tolerability.
Before the conduct of the studies in HIV-infected persons, a pilot study to assess the safety and tolerability of short-course regimens was conducted in 402 HIV-seronegative adults in North America (112,113).
Participants were randomized to receive either 2 mo of rifampin and pyrazinamide, 4 mo of rifampin only, or 6 mo of isoniazid.
The rates of adverse reactions and abnormal AST elevations were higher than those reported in studies involving HIV-positive populations and those described in a clinical trial of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide for the treatment of active TB in HIV-seronegative persons (114).
Two smaller pilot studies of rifampin and pyrazinamide treatment of LTBI using identical protocols were conducted in adults in Poland (115) and children in Germany (116).
The results of the study in Poland were similar to those in the study in North America; the children in Germany tolerated the regimens well and did not experience changes in hepatic function.
In the Hong Kong study of patients with silicosis, no significant differences were noted in the occurrence of severe adverse reactions in the three drug regimens studied (36).
However, patients receiving isoniazid had a higher incidence of abnormal liver function tests during treatment.
In the clinical trials involving HIV-infected persons, a trend of increased adverse reactions occurred among persons taking a daily regimen that included pyrazinamide.
The Uganda study reported that persons taking the three-drug, pyrazinamide-containing regimen had higher rates of paresthesias, arthralgias, and significant increases in serum AST (84).
The multinational study reported minimal increases in the number of persons receiving the 2-mo rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen who had the drugs permanently discontinued, most commonly because of nausea and vomiting and narcotic withdrawal (111).
However, abnormal liver function tests were more common among patients taking isoniazid.
In the Haiti study conducted during 1990--1994 and the Zambia study, regimens of twice-weekly rifampin and pyrazinamide were well tolerated.
In the Haiti study, no severe adverse reactions were observed; rates of abnormal liver function were low (1--3%) and did not differ by regimen (110).
In the Zambia study, 3% of persons given isoniazid stopped treatment because of an adverse reaction compared with 4% of those given rifampin and pyrazinamide (86).
Biochemical hepatitis was more frequent in the isoniazid group, whereas rash was more common in persons receiving rifampin and pyrazinamide.
Adherence Testing for and treating LTBI requires several steps, including administering the test, reading the test, medically evaluating infected persons, initiating treatment, and completing therapy.
Because persons with LTBI are not clinically ill and may not be motivated to undergo treatment, nonadherence occurs commonly in all steps of the treatment process.
The health care system can compromise patient adherence to testing and treatment of LTBI (117).
A lengthy referral process may discourage patients from being evaluated for a positive tuberculin test or initiating treatment for LTBI.
Long waiting times in the clinic may also discourage patients from attending follow-up visits.
Other factors that may affect adherence with testing and treatment include the clinic's hours of operation, distance of the clinic from the patient's home, the cleanliness of the clinic, and the attitude of clinic staff.
Since the advent of effective chemotherapy for active TB, adherence to treatment regimens has been recognized as a substantial problem for TB control---especially for treatment of LTBI.
Recent data reported to CDC indicate that only 60% of patients who start treatment for LTBI complete at least 6 mo of treatment (CDC, TB Program Management Reports); adherence is influenced by the length of therapy, complexity of the regimen, and side effects of the medications.
Adherence to treatment decreases with time, whereas the efficacy of the regimen increases with the length of therapy (32).
Patients may be more adherent to the 2-mo regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide because of the shorter length of therapy; however, this regimen also involves taking multiple medications, and patients may not tolerate this regimen as well as isoniazid, thus potentially resulting in nonadherence.
The Haiti study of rifampin and pyrazinamide taken twice weekly and the multinational study both reported better adherence with the shorter, 2-mo regimens.
Nonadherence was similar during the first 2 mo of therapy for both groups.
The multinational study reported an 80% completion rate for persons assigned to the 2-mo rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen compared with 69% for the 12-mo isoniazid regimen (111).
In the pilot study of HIV-seronegative persons, during the first 2 mo of therapy about 60% of those assigned to the rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen were judged to be nonadherent, compared with about 20% of those assigned to the 6-mo isoniazid regimen (113).
However, overall completion rates were lower for the isoniazid regimen because of continued nonadherence during the last 4 mo of therapy.
Determinants of adherence to treatment of TB and LTBI are not well understood (118).
For example, demographic factors are not reliable predictors of adherence.
However, culturally influenced beliefs and attitudes may result in misinformation about TB and may adversely affect adherence (119).
The main strategies that have been employed to promote adherence with treatment of LTBI are patient education (120), the use of lay health workers from the patient's social and/or cultural group (118,121), incentives (e.g., cash payments) (122), and directly observed therapy (DOT) (64).
The intervention most likely to improve adherence for treatment of LTBI has been DOT, which requires direct observation of the patient ingesting each dose of medication and usually includes the provision of comprehensive services that attempt to meet the patient's basic needs and the use of incentives and enablers (123--125).
Although randomized trials have yet to be reported, available information suggests that DOT leads to higher rates of completion than self-supervised therapy, and, under certain circumstances, is more cost effective (67).
RECOMMENDATIONS Implementation of Targeted Tuberculin Testing Decision to Tuberculin Test Is Decision to Treat Targeted tuberculin testing programs should be designed for one purpose: to identify persons at high risk for TB who would benefit by treatment of LTBI.
Following that principle, targeted tuberculin testing programs should be conducted among groups at risk for recent infection with M.
tuberculosis and those who, regardless of duration of infection, are at increased risk for progression to active TB (Table 7).
With the exception of initial testing of persons at low risk whose future activity will place them at increased risk of exposure (e.g., employment in a setting where TB transmission may occur), screening of low-risk persons is discouraged because it diverts resources from activities of higher priority.
In addition, a substantial proportion of tuberculin-test-positive persons from low-risk populations may have false-positive skin tests (73).
Testing is also discouraged unless a plan has been developed to complete a course of treatment in persons found to have LTBI.
Such planning should include arrangements for medical evaluation (e.g., chest radiographs) of persons with positive skin tests and for the medical supervision of the course of treatment.
Identification and Access to High-risk Groups A flexible approach to identifying high-risk groups is recommended, and state and local public health agencies are encouraged to analyze their TB case reports and data obtained from tuberculin skin testing to identify high-risk groups based on local trends in the epidemiology of TB.
Thus designing and conducting skin-test-screening surveys to determine whether population groups are at high risk for TB may be desirable.
Populations at risk can be accessed at HIV treatment facilities, drug treatment centers, homeless shelters, community health centers and schools serving foreign-born persons, and selected community-based organizations.
Mandated skin-testing programs (e.g., those that formerly were conducted among teachers and foodhandlers) should be discouraged unless the targeted groups contain substantial proportions of persons at high risk (126).
Role of the Health Department In this community-based approach to targeted testing and treatment of LTBI, the health department TB program should be instrumental in planning and coordination, setting performance standards, and overseeing quality of service.
The health department is responsible for assessing the community's TB problem, identifying high-risk groups based on the local epidemiology of TB, and ascertaining the sites of most convenient access to those groups.
In addition, the health department should assume responsibility for organizing the community-based approach, recruiting health professionals, educating such professionals about TB, and motivating them to institute targeted testing and treatment programs.
The health department should also serve as advisor, consultant, and facilitator to community providers and institutions that conduct testing and treatment programs.
The health department should assist in identifying potential funding sources and ensure linkages with essential clinical and consultation sources.
It should provide in-service training on tuberculin skin testing and treatment, written protocols for activities including patient tracking and skin testing, and patient and provider educational material translated into appropriate languages.
The health department may also need to provide chest radiography and subsidize the supply of antituberculosis drugs.
Finally, the health department should be responsible for providing or facilitating the ongoing evaluation of community-based targeted testing and treatment programs, including development and monitoring of program indicators (e.g., rates of skin tests administered that are read, proportion of tests read that are positive, and initiation and completion rates of treatment).
The health department should also routinely collect and review these data to determine yield and relative effectiveness of targeted testing and treatment of LTBI in the community.
To achieve a high rate of acceptance of testing and completion of treatment in a community-based program, barriers to success should be anticipated, identified, and managed.
The concept of taking drugs to treat a latent infection that is not causing current health problems is unfamiliar to most persons, and education of the patient is essential (120).
Other known barriers include culturally derived health beliefs that differ from those of Western medicine, inability to communicate with medical providers in one's primary language, inability to afford the costs of medical evaluation and treatment, and lack of access to medical care (118).
Patients should not be expected to pay directly for public health interventions (e.g., testing, evaluation, and treatment of LTBI).
The more convenient this process of testing and treatment, the more likely patients will adhere to therapyespecially as targeted testing and treatment of LTBI are extended beyond the province of public health TB clinics to sites where primary health care is delivered.
Diagnosis of Latent Tuberculosis Infection Tuberculin Skin Testing Administering and reading tests.
The tuberculin test, like all medical tests, is subject to variability, but many of the inherent variations in administering and reading tests can be avoided by careful attention to details.
The preferred skin test for M.
tuberculosis infection is the intradermal, or Mantoux, method.
It is administered by injecting 0.1 ml of 5 tuberculin units (TU) PPD intradermally into the dorsal or volar surface of the forearm.
Tests should be read 48--72 h after test administration, and the transverse diameter of induration should be recorded in millimeters.
Multiple puncture tests (i.e., Tine and Heaf) and PPD strengths of 1 TU and 250 TU are not sufficiently accurate and should not be used.
Interpreting skin-test reactions.
For persons who are at highest risk for developing TB disease if they become infected with M.
Persons who are immunosuppressed because of disease (e.g., HIV infection) or drugs (e.g., systemic corticosteroids) have a high likelihood of developing TB disease if they are infected with M.
tuberculosis.
Likewise, persons who have had recent close contact with an infectious TB case patient and those with abnormal chest radio graphs consistent with prior TB are at high risk for TB.
In addition to those groups listed, high-prevalence populations identified by analysis of local epidemiologic data should be targeted for testing.
Routine tuberculin testing is not recommended for populations at low risk for LTBI.
Skin-test conversion.
tuberculosis.
Previous vaccination with BCG.
Tuberculin skin testing is not contraindicated for persons who have been vaccinated with BCG, and the skin-test results of such persons can be used as described to support or exclude the diagnosis of M.
tuberculosis infection.
However, no method can reliably distinguish tuberculin reactions caused by vaccination with BCG from those caused by natural mycobacterial infections.
Therefore, a positive reaction to tuberculin in BCG-vaccinated persons indicates infection with M.
tuberculosis when the person tested is at increased risk for recent infection or has medical conditions that increase the risk for disease (Table 7).
Anergy testing in persons infected with HIV.
Anergy testing is not recommended for routine use in persons who are infected with HIV or otherwise immunocompromised (77).
However, it may assist in guiding individual treatment decisions in selected situations.
Chest Radiographs A chest radiograph is indicated for all persons being considered for treatment of LTBI to exclude active pulmonary TB.
Children younger than 5 yr of age should have both posterior--anterior and lateral radiographs.
All other persons should receive posterior--anterior radiographs; additional radiographs should be performed at the physician's discretion.
Because of the risk for progressive and/or congenital TB, pregnant women who have a positive tuberculin skin test or who have negative skin-test results but who are recent contacts of persons with infectious TB disease should have chest radiographs (with appropriate shielding) as soon as feasible, even during the first trimester of pregnancy.
If chest radiographs are normal and no symptoms consistent with active TB are present, tuberculin-positive persons may be candidates for treatment of LTBI.
If radiographic or clinical findings are consistent with pulmonary or extrapulmonary TB, further studies (e.g., medical evaluation, bacteriologic examinations, and a comparison of the current and old chest radiographs) should be done to determine if treatment for active TB is indicated.
Sputum Examinations Sputum examination is not indicated for most persons being considered for treatment of LTBI.
However, persons with chest radiographic findings suggestive of prior, healed TB infections should have three consecutive sputum samples, obtained on different days, submitted for AFB smear and culture.
Most persons with radiographs that show only calcified pulmonary nodules do not require bacteriologic examination.
HIV-infected persons with respiratory symptoms who are being considered for treatment of LTBI should also have sputum specimens submitted for mycobacterial examination, even if the chest radiograph is normal.
If the results of sputum smears and cultures are negative and respiratory symptoms can be explained by another etiology, the person is a candidate for treatment of LTBI.
If bacteriologic results are negative but the activity or etiology of a radiographic abnormality is questionable, further evaluation with bronchoscopy or needle aspiration biopsy should be undertaken.
Single drug treatment of LTBI should not be started until active TB has been excluded.
In such situations, multidrug therapy can be started and continued pending results of sputum cultures.
A repeat chest film should be obtained to exclude active TB, as indicated by improvement in the abnormality even in the presence of negative cultures.
Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection Individual Drugs Isoniazid.
Isoniazid is the most widely used of the antituberculosis agents---it is bactericidal, relatively nontoxic, easily administered, and inexpensive.
Isoniazid is highly active against M.
tuberculosis (most strains being inhibited in vitro by concentrations of 0.05--0.20 µg/ml).
Absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is nearly complete, with peak serum concentrations of 2--5 µg/ml occurring 0.5--2.0 h after administration of a 300-mg dose.
The drug penetrates well into all body fluids and cavities, producing concentrations similar to those found in serum.
Hepatitis is the most severe toxic effect of isoniazid, and alcohol consumption may increase toxicity (Table 8).
Peripheral neuropathy, caused by interference with metabolism of pyridoxine, is associated with isoniazid administration but is uncommon at a dose of 5 mg/kg.
In persons with conditions in which neuropathy is common (e.g., diabetes, uremia, alcoholism, malnutrition, and HIV infection), pyridoxine should be given with isoniazid.
Pregnant women and persons with seizure disorders should also take both pyridoxine and isoniazid.
Mild central nervous system effects are common with isoniazid and may necessitate adjustments in the timing of administration of the drug to enhance compliance.
The interaction of isoniazid and phenytoin increases the serum concentration of both drugs.
When these drugs are given concomitantly, the serum level of phenytoin should be monitored.
No known interactions exist between isoniazid and the antiretroviral medications used for the treatment of HIV infection.
Rifampin is a rifamycin derivative that is bactericidal for M.
tuberculosis.
Most strains of M.
tuberculosis are inhibited in vitro by concentrations of 0.5 µg/ml.
It is quickly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, with peak serum concentrations of 7--14 µg/ml occurring 1.5--3.0 h after ingestion.
Although approximately 75% of the drug is protein bound, it penetrates well into tissues and cells.
Penetration through noninflamed meninges is poor, but therapeutic concentrations are achieved in cerebrospinal fluid when the meninges are inflamed.
The most common adverse reaction to rifampin is gastrointestinal upset.
Other reactions include skin eruptions, hepatitis, and, rarely, thrombocytopenia (Table 8).
The frequency of these reactions is low.
Because rifampin induces hepatic microsomal enzymes, it may accelerate clearance of drugs metabolized by the liver (e.g., methadone, coumadin derivatives, glucocorticoids, hormonal contraceptives, oral hypoglycemic agents, digitalis, anticonvulsants, dapsone, ketoconazole, and cyclosporin).
By accelerating the metabolism of estrogen, rifampin may interfere with the effectiveness of oral contraceptives.
In persons with HIV infection who are taking HIV protease inhibitors, rifampin is usually contraindicated because drug interactions between rifampin and these agents can lead to increased rifampin levels and decreased protease-inhibitor levels, resulting in increased risk for rifampin toxicity and decreased protease-inhibitor efficacy.
Rifampin is also contraindicated or should be used with caution in HIV-infected patients who are taking non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs).
However, these reactions are uncommon at the recommended dose of 10 mg/kg/d.
Rifampin is excreted in urine, tears, sweat, and other body fluids and colors them orange.
Patients should be advised of discoloration of body fluids and of possible permanent discoloration of soft contact lenses.
Pyrazinamide.
Pyrazinamide is bactericidal for M.
tuberculosis in an acid environment.
The drug is active against organisms in macrophages, presumably because of the acid environment within the cell.
At a pH of 5.5, the minimal inhibitory concentration of pyrazinamide for M.
tuberculosis is 20 µg/ml.
Absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is nearly complete, with peak serum concentrations of 30--50 µg/ml occurring approximately 2 h after ingestion with doses of 20--25 mg/kg.
The most common side effect of pyrazinamide is gastrointestinal upset (Table 8).
The most severe adverse reaction is liver injury.
No substantial increase in hepatotoxicity results from adding 15--30 mg/kg of pyrazinamide to a regimen of rifampin during 2 mo of therapy for active TB (114).
Hyperuricemia also occurs, but acute gout is uncommon (127).
No known interactions exist between pyrazinamide and antiretroviral medications.
Rifabutin is another rifamycin that is highly active against M.
tuberculosis.
Its mechanism of action is the same as that of rifampin, so that most rifampin-resistant strains are also resistant to rifabutin.
Most strains of M.
tuberculosis are inhibited by concentrations of 0.1 µg/ml.
A dose of 300 mg results in peak serum concentrations of 5 µg/ml after 23 h.
The major advantage of rifabutin is the longer serum half-life and reduced hepatic induction of microsomal metabolism compared with that of rifampin.
Rifabutin is extensively metabolized in the liver (and to a lesser extent in the intestinal wall); only 8% of a dose is excreted unchanged in the urine.
Doses of up to 300 mg daily are usually well tolerated.
Side effects attributed to rifabutin include rash, gastrointestinal intolerance, neutropenia, myalgias, and dysguesia.
Hepatotoxicity is rare, but rifabutin can cause drug-induced hepatitis.
Rates of side effects increase when rifabutin is administered with a CYP-3A4 inhibitor (e.g., clarithromycin); side effects that have been noted under these circumstances include uveitis (128) and abnormal skin pigmentation (129).
Similar to rifampin, rifabutin can also decrease concentrations and clinical efficacy of methadone, coumadin derivatives, glucocorticoids, hormonal contraceptives, oral hypoglycemic agents, digitalis, anticonvulsants, dapsone, ketoconazole, and cyclosporin, as well as itraconazole, ß-blockers, and theophylline.
Doses of these medications may have to be increased when administered with rifabutin.
When administered with rifabutin, protease inhibitors, used for the treatment of HIV infection, may lead to increased levels of rifabutin and decreased levels of the protease inhibitor; however, these effects are generally less than those that occur with rifampin and can be accommodated by dose adjustments (Table 8).
NNRTIs, used for the treatment of HIV infection, may also necessitate rifabutin dose adjustment.
Treatment Regimens Treatment of LTBI is an essential part of the strategy to eliminate TB in the United States.
Persons with LTBI who are included among those at increased risk for TB should be offered treatment.
The choice of the specific treatment regimen is based on many considerations as detailed in the following sections.
Public Health Service Rating System.
To help clinicians make informed treatment decisions based on the most current research results, evidence-based ratings are assigned to the drug treatment recommendations (general recommendations have no rating) (Table 9).
The ratings system is similar to that used in previous PHS documents (3) and includes a letter and a Roman numeral: the letter indicates the strength of the recommendation, and the Roman numeral indicates the quality of the evidence supporting the recommendation.
Thus, clinicians can use the ratings to differentiate between recommendations based on data from clinical trials and those based on the opinions of experts familiar with the relevant clinical practice and scientific rationale for such practice (when clinical trial data are not available).
Recommended regimens.
Four regimens are recommended for the treatment of adults with LTBI (Table 10).
The antituberculosis medications used in these regimens have varying doses, toxicities, and monitoring requirements (Table 8).
All patients being given twice-weekly treatment should receive DOT, because nonadherence to intermittent dosing results in a larger proportion of the total doses missed than does daily dosing.
DOT should be used whenever feasible, especially with 2-mo regimens and in certain settings (e.g., some institutional settings, community outreach programs, and for some persons living in households with patients who are receiving home-based DOT for active TB).
Isoniazid for 9 mo.
The isoniazid daily regimen for 9 mo receives an A recommendation.
Prospective, randomized trials of up to 12 mo of therapy in HIV-uninfected persons suggest that the maximal beneficial effect of isoniazid is achieved by 9 mo; minimal additional benefit is gained by extending treatment to 12 mo.
Thus, this updated recommendation represents a shortening of the previous recommendation of isoniazid daily for 12 mo for HIV-infected persons and a lengthening of the previously recommended 6 mo for HIV-uninfected persons (1).
Both 12-mo and 6-mo regimens of isoniazid have substantially reduced rates of TB in HIV-infected persons compared with placebo (88), but the 6-mo regimen has not been directly compared with the 12-mo regimen in HIV-infected persons.
Thus, the recommendation for 9 mo of isoniazid in HIV-infected persons is based on extrapolation of available data.
Intermittent dosing of 9 mo of isoniazid for treatment of LTBI has not been studied comparatively.
However, analogous with the continuation phase of treatment for active TB (where twice-weekly dosing is equivalent to daily dosing), twice-weekly dosing of isoniazid is also acceptable for treatment of LTBI, but is recommended at the B level as an acceptable alternative regimen.
Isoniazid for 6 mo.
Although a 9-mo regimen of isoniazid is the preferred treatment of LTBI for an individual patient, a 6-mo regimen also provides substantial protection and has been demonstrated to be superior to placebo in both HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected persons (32,84).
From a societal perspective, treatment for 6 mo rather than 9 mo may provide a more cost-effective outcome (81).
Thus, based on individual situations, health departments or other providers may prefer to concentrate efforts in ensuring the implementation of a 6-mo rather than a 9-mo course of isoniazid.
Isoniazid for 6 mo, taken either daily or twice weekly, is recommended at the B level for HIV-negative persons and at the C level for HIV-positive persons.
The shorter regimen is not recommended for children or persons with radiographic evidence of prior tuberculosis.
Rifampin and pyrazinamide for 2 mo.
The 2-mo daily regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide is recommended on the basis of a prospective randomized trial of treatment of LTBI in HIV-infected persons that demonstrated the 2-mo regimen to be similar in safety and efficacy to a 12-mo regimen of isoniazid (111).
Although this regimen has not been evaluated in HIV-uninfected persons with LTBI, the efficacy is not expected to differ significantly.
However, the toxicities may be increased (113); therefore, the recommendation is made at the A level for HIV-infected persons and at the B level for HIV-uninfected persons until further data are available.
Two randomized, prospective trials of intermittent dosing of rifampin and pyrazinamide for 2 and 3 mo, respectively, have been reported in HIV-infected persons (86, 110); in neither case was the sample size adequate to conclude with certainty that efficacy was equivalent to daily dosing.
Moreover, both studies compared the twice-weekly rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen to the 6-mo isoniazid regimen.
Therefore, rifampin and pyrazinamide given twice weekly for 2--3 mo may be considered when alternative regimens cannot be given.
This recommendation is made at the C level.
Rifampin for 4 mo.
Rifampin given daily for 3 mo has resulted in better protection than placebo in treatment of LTBI in HIV-uninfected persons with silicosis in a randomized prospective trial (36).
However, because the patients receiving rifampin had a high rate of active TB (4%), experts have concluded that a 4--mo regimen would be more prudent when using rifampin alone.
This 4-mo rifampin regimen is recommended at the B level for both HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected persons.
This option may be useful for patients who cannot tolerate isoniazid or pyrazinamide.
Choice of regimen.
Because more than one regimen can be used to treat LTBI, health care providers should discuss options with the patient, and, when possible, help patients make the decision, unless medical indications dictate a specific regimen.
Discussion should include the length and complexity of the regimens, possible adverse effects, and potential drug interactions.
Completion of treatment.
Completion of therapy is based on total number of doses administered---not on duration of therapy alone.
The 9-mo regimen of daily isoniazid should consist of 270 doses, at minimum, administered within 12 mo, allowing for minor interruptions in therapy.
The 6-mo regimen of isoniazid should consist of at least 180 doses administered within 9 mo.
Twice-weekly isoniazid regimens should consist of at least 76 doses administered within 12 mo for the 9-mo regimen and 52 doses within 9 mo for the 6-mo regimen.
The daily regimen of rifampin (or rifabutin) and pyrazinamide should consist of at least 60 doses to be administered within 3 mo.
The regimen of daily rifampin alone should consist of at least 120 doses administered within 6 mo.
Ideally, patients should receive medication on a regular dosing schedule until completion of the indicated course.
However, in practice some doses may be missed, requiring the course to be lengthened.
When reinstituting therapy for patients who have interrupted treatment, clinicians might need to continue the regimen originally prescribed (as long as needed to complete the recommended duration of the particular regimen) or renew the entire regimen if interruptions were frequent or prolonged enough to preclude completion of treatment as recommended.
In either situation, when therapy is restored after an interruption of more than 2 mo, a medical examination to rule out active TB disease is indicated.
Special considerations.
Treatment of HIV-infected persons.
Recommendations for HIV-infected adults largely parallel those for HIV-uninfected adults, although the quality of evidence and strengths of the recommendations vary (Table 10).
However, when isoniazid is chosen for treatment of LTBI in persons with HIV infection, 9 mo is recommended rather that 6 mo.
In addition, rifampin is generally contraindicated or should be used with caution in persons who are taking protease inhibitors (PIs) or NNRTIs (169).
Experts have recommended that for HIV-infected persons who are candidates for treatment of LTBI and need PI or NNRTI therapy, rifabutin can be substituted for rifampin in some circumstances; rifabutin can safely be used with indinavir, nelfinavir, amprenavir, ritonavir, and efavirenz, but not with hard-gel saquinavir, or delavirdine.
Caution is advised if rifabutin is administered with soft-gel saquinavir, because data regarding use of rifabutin with soft-gel saquinavir or nevirapine are limited.
No specific data have been generated for treatment of LTBI with rifabutin-containing regimens, but such a recommendation is supported by analogy with treatment for active TB (where rifabutin can be substituted for rifampin with no loss of efficacy) and by experimental studies in mice (107,130).
Rifabutin can be administered at one half the usual daily dose (i.e., reduced from 300 mg to 150 mg/d) with indinavir, nelfinavir, or amprenavir or at one-fourth the usual dose (i.e., 150 mg every other day or three times a week) with ritonavir.
The daily rifabutin dose is 450 mg or 600 mg when used with efavirenz; pharmacokinetic studies suggest that rifabutin might be given at usual doses with nevirapine.
For patients receiving multiple PIs or a PI in combination with an NNRTI, drug interactions with rifabutin are likely more complex; in such situations, the use of rifabutin is not recommended until additional data are available.
The substitution of rifapentine for rifampin is not recommended because rifapentine's safety and effectiveness have not been established for patients infected with HIV (131).
Furthermore, the drug interactions between rifapentine and HIV protease inhibitors have not been studied in detail, although one study has indicated that rifapentine causes substantial reduction in the serum level of indinavir when the drugs are given together (132).
In tuberculin-negative, HIV-infected persons, treatment of LTBI has not been effective (3).
However, most tuberculin-negative HIV-infected contacts of patients with active TB should receive treatment for presumptive LTBI---even when repeat testing after contact has ended is not indicative of LTBI.
Furthermore, some experts recommend treatment of possible LTBI for HIV-infected residents of institutions that pose an ongoing high risk for exposure to M.
tuberculosis (e.g., prisons, jails, and homeless shelters).
Persons with fibrotic lesions/suspected disease.
These regimens include 9 mo of isoniazid, 2 mo of rifampin plus pyrazinamide, or 4 mo of rifampin (with or without isoniazid), providing that infection with drug-resistant organisms is judged to be unlikely.
Patients who begin multidrug therapy for suspected pulmonary TB but are subsequently determined not to have active disease (i.e., AFB cultures are negative and chest radiographs are stable) should complete treatment with at least 2 mo of a regimen containing rifampin and pyrazinamide if the tuberculin skin test is positive and other causes of the radiographic abnormalities have been excluded.
Persons with evidence suggestive of healed, primary TB (i.e., calcified solitary pulmonary nodules, calcified hilar lymph nodes, and apical pleural capping) are not at increased risk for TB.
Their risk for TB and need for treatment of LTBI should be determined by consideration of other risk factors and the size of the tuberculin reaction (Table 7).
Pregnancy and lactation.
Pregnancy has minimal influence on the pathogenesis of TB or the likelihood of LTBI progressing to disease (133, 134).
Although one study demonstrated a decrease in lymphocyte reactivity to tuberculin during pregnancy (135), other studies have not demonstrated an effect of pregnancy on cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity to tuberculin (136, 137).
The current classification scheme for interpreting the Mantoux tuberculin skin test is likely valid in pregnancy, although it has not been verified in this group of women.
There is no evidence that the tuberculin skin test has adverse effects on the pregnant mother or fetus (138).
Pregnant women should be targeted for tuberculin skin testing only if they have a specific risk factor for LTBI or for progression of LTBI to disease.
Although the need for treatment of active TB during pregnancy is unquestioned, the treatment of LTBI in pregnant women is more controversial.
Some experts prefer to delay treatment until after delivery because pregnancy itself does not increase the risk of progression to disease, and two studies suggest that women in pregnancy and the early postpartum period may be vulnerable to isoniazid hepatotoxicity (91, 92).
However, because conditions that promote hematogenous spread of organisms to the placenta (e.g., recent infection and HIV infection) or progression of LTBI to disease can endanger both the mother and baby (139), many experts agree that pregnant women with these conditions and LTBI should be treated during pregnancy and have careful clinical and laboratory monitoring for hepatitis.
The possible risk for isoniazid hepatotoxicity must be weighed against the risk for developing active TB and the consequences to both the mother and her child should active disease develop.
Extensive use of isoniazid during pregnancy has indicated that although it readily crosses the placental barrier, the drug is not teratogenic even when given during the first 4 mo of gestation (140).
Regarding rifampin, one study revealed that 3% of 446 fetuses exposed in utero to rifampin had abnormalities (i.e., limb reductions, central nervous system abnormalities, and hypoprothrombinemia) compared with 2% for ethambutol and 1% for both isoniazid and controls (138).
Hemorrhagic disease of the newborn has been described following the use of rifampin in the mother (141).
However, extensive experience with the use of rifampin to treat TB in pregnant women suggests it is safe in most circumstances.
Although pyrazinamide has been used to treat TB in pregnant women, no published data exist concerning the effects of the drug on the fetus.
Thus, although pyrazinamide may be considered after the first trimester in women with HIV infection (142), it should otherwise be avoided.
The preferred regimen for treatment of LTBI in pregnant women is isoniazid, administered either daily or twice weekly.
Although rifampin is probably safe, no efficacy data support its use.
For women at high risk for progression of LTBI to disease, especially those who are infected with HIV or who have been infected recently, initiation of therapy should not be delayed on the basis of pregnancy alone, even during the first trimester.
For these women, careful clinical and/or laboratory monitoring for hepatitis should be undertaken.
Pregnant women taking isoniazid should receive pyridoxine supplementation.
Toxic effects of antituberculosis drugs delivered in breast milk have not been reported.
Breastfeeding is not contraindicated when the mother is being treated for LTBI.
However, infants whose breastfeeding mothers are taking isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine.
The amount of isoniazid provided by breast milk is inadequate for treatment of the infant.
Children and adolescents.
Several fundamental aspects of the natural history and treatment of LTBI in children must be considered when making recommendations about therapy.
Infants and young children (i.e., those younger than 5 yr of age) with LTBI have been infected recently, and are at high risk for progression to disease.
Data suggest that untreated infants with LTBI have up to a 40% likelihood of developing TB (144).
The risk for progression decreases gradually through childhood.
Infants and young children are more likely than older children and adults to develop life-threatening forms of TB, especially meningeal and disseminated disease.
Children with LTBI have more years at risk to develop TB than adults.
Isoniazid therapy for LTBI appears to be more effective for children than adults, with several large clinical trials demonstrating risk reduction of 7090% (145,146).
The risk for isoniazid-related hepatitis is minimal in infants, children, and adolescents, who generally tolerate the drug better than adults (147,148).
Isoniazid therapy is widely accepted for use in children.
Because of differences in pathogenesis of TB infection and disease in children compared with adults, information from clinical trials involving adults cannot be applied directly to children without confirmatory pediatric trials.
The only published efficacy trials of treatment of LTBI in children have studied isoniazid alone.
The only recommended regimen for treatment of LTBI in HIV-uninfected children is a 9-mo course of isoniazid as self-administered daily therapy or by DOT twice weekly.
Routine monitoring of serum liver enzyme concentrations is not necessary but should be considered in children at risk for hepatic disease.
When children taking antituberculosis therapy develop hepatitis, a search for causes other than isoniazid or other drugs should be undertaken and the therapy discontinued.
Routine administration of pyridoxine is not recommended for children taking isoniazid, but should be given to (1) breastfeeding infants, (2) children and adolescents with diets likely to be deficient in pyridoxine, and (3) children who experience paresthesias while taking isoniazid.
Isoniazid given twice weekly has been used extensively to treat LTBI in children, especially schoolchildren and close contacts of case patients (125).
On the basis of clinical experience, this method of administration is safe, but its effectiveness has not been established definitively.
DOT should be considered when it is unlikely that the child and family will be adherent to daily self-administration.
In the United States, rifampin alone has been used for the treatment of LTBI in infants, children, and adolescents when isoniazid could not be tolerated or the child has had contact with a case patient infected with an isoniazid-resistant but rifamycin-susceptible organism (149).
However, no controlled clinical trials have been conducted.
A 3-mo regimen of rifampin and isoniazid has been used in England, with programmatic data suggesting that the regimen is effective (108).
No reports have been published concerning the efficacy of rifampin and pyrazinamide therapy in children with LTBI, although a randomized study involving a limited number of children indicated that this regimen was well tolerated (116).
No studies have been published regarding the efficacy of any form of treatment for LTBI in HIV-infected children.
The American Academy of Pediatrics currently recommends a 9-mo course of isoniazid (150).
Most experts recommend that routine monitoring of serum liver enzyme concentrations be performed and pyridoxine given when HIV-infected children are treated with isoniazid.
The optimal length of rifampin therapy in children with LTBI is not known; however, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends 6 mo of treatment (150).
Contacts of patients with tuberculosis.
Contacts of patients with drug-susceptible tuberculosis.
In addition, some tuberculin-negative contacts should be considered for treatment.
Because of susceptibility to severe disease, children younger than 5 yr of age with negative skin tests should be treated and another skin test performed 8--12 wk after contact has ended.
If the repeat skin test is positive, treatment should continue for the recommended period of time; if the repeat skin test is negative, the treatment should be stopped.
Immunosuppressed persons, including those with HIV infection, who are contacts of persons with active TB should also receive treatment, even if repeat skin testing does not indicate LTBI.
Contacts of patients with isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis.
No definitive data exist concerning treatment of contacts who have been exposed to patients with probable or confirmed isoniazid-resistant TB.
An expert panel has recommended use of rifampin for vulnerable contacts (e.g., those with HIV infection) of patients with isoniazid-resistant TB (152).
In an outbreak of isoniazid- and streptomycin-resistant TB among homeless persons, six (9%) of 71 persons with skin tests that converted who received no preventive therapy developed TB, compared with three (8%) of 38 who received isoniazid, and zero of 98 persons who received rifampin or isoniazid and rifampin (153).
Similarly, of 157 high school students who took rifampin after being exposed to a patient with isoniazid-resistant, active TB, none developed TB during the second year of the study (149).
However, one episode of rifampin prophylaxis failure was reported among contacts of a case patient with isoniazid-resistant TB in a community outbreak (154).
For contacts of patients with isoniazid-resistant, rifampin-susceptible TB, a 2-mo regimen of rifampin and pyrazinamide is recommended.
For patients with intolerance to pyrazinamide, a 4-mo regimen of rifampin alone is recommended.
In situations in which rifampin cannot be used, rifabutin can be substituted.
Contacts of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
The occurrence of outbreaks of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) (i.e., TB caused by strains of M.
tuberculosis resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampin) and the rise in resistance rates worldwide have focused attention on options for treatment of persons exposed to and presumed to be infected by such organisms (155).
As with exposure to isoniazid-resistant TB, this problem has not been evaluated in prospective studies.
A Delphi technique among 31 experts failed to achieve consensus on the management of such persons (156).
Persons infected with isoniazid- and rifampin-resistant organisms are unlikely to benefit from treatment with regimens containing these agents.
Therefore, use of a regimen containing other agents active against M.
tuberculosis should be considered.
When possible, selection of drugs for such a regimen should be guided by in vitro susceptibility test results from the isolate to which the patient was exposed and is presumed infected.
For persons who are likely to be infected with MDR TB and at high risk of developing TB, pyrazinamide and ethambutol or pyrazinamide and a fluoroquinolone (i.e., levofloxacin or ofloxacin) for 6--12 mo are recommended, if the organisms from the index case-patient are known to be susceptible to these agents (157).
Immunocompetent contacts may be observed without treatment or treated for at least 6 mo; immunocompromised contacts (e.g., HIV-infected persons) should be treated for 12 mo.
Side effects of pyrazinamide and fluoroquinolones include gastrointestinal symptoms and hepatic transaminase elevations (158).
All persons with suspected MDR TB infection should be followed for at least 2 yr, irrespective of treatment.
Expert consultation should be sought for the treatment of persons exposed to patients with MDR TB.
No studies have been published regarding treatment of LTBI in children following exposure to multidrug-resistant TB.
Ethambutol at 15 mg/kg is safe in children (159).
The combination of pyrazinamide and ethambutol for 9--12 mo is recommended if the isolate is susceptible to both drugs.
Long-term use of fluoroquinolones in children should be avoided.
Deleterious effects on growing cartilage have been observed in animals treated with fluoroquinolones (160), although no defects in bone growth occurred among a limited number of children with cystic fibrosis treated with ciprofloxacin or ofloxacin (161).
When pyrazinamide and ethambutol cannot be used, many experts recommend using a combination of two other drugs to which the infecting organism is likely susceptible (162, 163).
Low-risk tuberculin test reactors.
When treatment of LTBI is being considered for persons who are at low risk for developing TB, the decision should be based on factors such as likelihood of drug toxicity if treatment is given and likelihood of TB transmission to vulnerable contacts (e.g., infants and HIV-infected persons) if treatment were not given and the patient were to develop active TB.
Included in this decision are the patient's preferences and values.
When the assessed risk of drug toxicity exceeds the anticipated benefits of therapy, treatment for LTBI is not usually appropriate.
BCG-vaccinated persons.
A history of BCG vaccination, with or without a BCG scar, should not influence the decision regarding whether to treat LTBI.
The criteria previously described should be applied without modification (164).
Directly observed therapy and measures to increase adherence.
Any regimen that is given intermittently (i.e., twice weekly) should be given only under direct observation.
Some experts recommend that the 2-mo regimen of daily rifampin and pyrazinamide also be given by DOT, which, for ease of administration, may consist of five observed and two self-administered doses each week.
Patients with the highest priority for DOT are those at the highest risk of progression from latent to active TB, including persons with HIV infection and young children who are contacts of infectious patients with pulmonary TB.
DOT may be conveniently and effectively used for the treatment of household contacts of patients receiving DOT for active TB and for treatment observed by staff members in certain facilities (e.g., schools and homeless shelters).
If it is not possible to provide DOT to enhance adherence with treatment of LTBI, the prescribed regimen should be incorporated into patients' daily routines.
Medical providers can encourage adherence to treatment by establishing rapport with patients.
Providers should explain in simple, clear language what LTBI is, the health threat it presents, and how it is eradicated.
Patients should be encouraged to ask questions.
Patient education should ideally be conducted in the patient's primary language, or through a medical interpreter, if necessary.
Each visit between patient and medical provider during therapy is an opportunity to reinforce the patient's understanding of LTBI and its treatment.
In addition to education about potential drug toxicity, patients should be told about common side effects and counseled on drug management.
(For example, medications should be taken with food when gastrointestinal symptoms have occurred after medication was taken on an empty stomach, and salicylic acid can be used for symptomatic treatment of arthralgia caused by pyrazinamide.) Most interventions to improve adherence require substantial financial resources.
Providing flexible clinic hours, reducing waiting times for patients, spending time with patients to counsel and educate, and directly observing patients ingesting medications increase operating expenses.
Even the least intensive approaches to improve adherence increase program costs.
The costs of these approaches to improving patient adherence underscore the need to target tuberculin testing and treatment of LTBI to those groups with an increased risk for recent infection or those persons at high risk for progression to active TB, if infected.
In addition, programs should invest in approaches to increase adherence, especially for those persons who are at greatest risk for progressing to disease.
Better success in motivating patients to accept and to complete treatment is necessary to achieve the full potential of this intervention to protect persons from TB and to reduce the incidence of the disease in the community.
Pretreatment Evaluation and Monitoring of Treatment Pretreatment evaluation.
The pretreatment evaluation of persons who are targeted for treatment of LTBI provides an opportunity for health care providers to a) establish rapport with patients, b) discuss the details of the patients' risk for TB, c) emphasize the benefits of treatment and the importance of adherence to the drug regimen, d) review possible adverse effects of the regimen, including interactions with other drugs, and e) establish an optimal follow-up plan.
The evaluation should include an interview conducted in the patients' primary language with assistance of qualified medical interpreters, if necessary.
The patient history should document risk factors for TB, prior treatment for TB or LTBI, and preexisting medical conditions that constitute a contraindication to treatment or are associated with an increased risk for adverse effects of treatment.
A detailed history of current and previous drug therapy should be obtained, with particular attention to previous adverse reactions to drugs contemplated for treatment of LTBI, and to current use of drugs which may interact with the drugs used for treatment.
Women receiving rifampin and oral contraceptives are at increased risk for becoming pregnant and should be advised to consider an additional form of contraception.
Practitioners should consider using a standardized history form to ensure that all elements of the pretest evaluation are thoroughly covered for each patient.
Baseline laboratory testing is not routinely indicated for all patients at the start of treatment for LTBI (Table 8).
Patients whose initial evaluation suggests a liver disorder should have baseline hepatic measurements of serum AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT) and bilirubin.
Baseline testing is also indicated for patients infected with HIV, pregnant women and those in the immediate postpartum period (i.e., within 3 mo of delivery), persons with a history of liver disease (e.g., hepatitis B or C, alcoholic hepatitis or cirrhosis), persons who use alcohol regularly, and others who are at risk for chronic liver disease.
Baseline testing is no longer routinely indicated in persons older than 35 yr of age.
However, such testing may be considered on an individual basis, particularly for patients who are taking other medications for chronic medical conditions.
Active hepatitis and end-stage liver disease are relative contraindications to the use of isoniazid or pyrazinamide for treatment of LTBI.
Monitoring of treatment.
Clinical monitoring is indicated for all patients; this involves education of patients about the symptoms and signs that can result as adverse effects of the drug(s) being prescribed and the need for prompt cessation of treatment and clinical evaluation should symptoms occur.
These include any of the following: unexplained anorexia, nausea, vomiting, dark urine, icterus, rash, persistent paresthesias of the hands and feet, persistent fatigue, weakness or fever lasting 3 or more days, abdominal tenderness (especially right upper quadrant discomfort), easy bruising or bleeding, and arthralgia (Table 8).
Clinical monitoring begins at the first visit and should be repeated at each monthly visit.
At monthly visits, patients should be instructed to interrupt therapy and contact their providers immediately upon the onset of such symptoms or any unexplained illness occurring during treatment.
Patients being treated for LTBI should receive a clinical evaluation, including a brief physical assessment checking for signs of hepatitis, at least monthly if receiving isoniazid alone or rifampin alone and at 2, 4, and 8 wk if receiving both rifampin and pyrazinamide (Table 8).
These evaluations represent opportunities to review the indications for treatment, adherence with therapy since the last visit, symptoms of adverse drug effects and drug interactions, and plans to continue treatment.
As with the baseline evaluation, a standardized questionnaire may facilitate those interviews.
Routine laboratory monitoring during treatment of LTBI is indicated for patients whose baseline liver function tests are abnormal and for other persons at risk for hepatic disease (Table 8).
In addition, laboratory testing (e.g., liver function studies for patients with symptoms compatible with hepatotoxicity or a uric acid measurement to evaluate patients who develop acute arthritis) should be used to evaluate possible adverse effects that occur during the course of treatment.
Some experts recommend that isoniazid be withheld if a patient's transaminase level exceeds 3 times the upper limit of normal if associated with symptoms and five times the upper limit of normal if the patient is asymptomatic.
Reporting of serious adverse events.
Practitioners and other health professionals should report serious adverse events associated with the treatment of LTBI to the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration's MedWatch program.
Serious adverse events include those associated with hospitalization, permanent disability, or death.
Reporting may be by mail, telephone (1-800-FDA-1088), fax (1-800-FDA-0178), or the Internet site (
PRIORITIES FOR FUTURE RESEARCH Diagnosis The only widely available method to detect LTBI is the tuberculin skin test.
However, the specificity of the test is decreased by cross reactions from BCG vaccination and sensitization by nontuberculous mycobacteria.
When used in populations in which the risk for TB is low, the test's positive predictive value is poor.
In addition, the requirement that the person tested return for the test to be read 48--72 h after test administration creates operational problems.
Thus, more specific and sensitive tests are needed to diagnose LTBI and to identify persons at greatest risk for progressing to active disease.
Especially useful would be tests that distinguish skin-test reactions caused by TB infection from those caused by BCG vaccination or infection with nontuberculous mycobacteria, tests that correlate with the presence of living organisms, and tests that accurately identify LTBI in immunodeficient persons.
Operational Research Acceptability, Tolerability, and Effectiveness of Daily Rifampin and Pyrazinamide More data are needed regarding the acceptability, tolerability, and effectiveness of the 2-mo regimen of daily rifampin and pyrazinamide in HIV-negative persons.
Data are especially needed from older adults and children.
Intermittent Rifampin-containing Regimens No studies of rifampin alone taken twice weekly for the treatment of LTBI have been conducted.
Data from two studies in HIV-infected persons that included intermittent (i.e., twice weekly) rifampin and pyrazinamide administration suggested that these regimens were effective (86,110).
Before additional trials of intermittent rifampin regimens are undertaken, animal model data are needed to compare these regimens with regimens using other longer-acting rifamycin derivatives (see Efficacy Studies of New Drugs).
Isoniazid Taken Twice Weekly It is unlikely that a formal efficacy study of intermittent isoniazid for the treatment of LTBI will be undertaken, unless it is included as a control arm for studies of newer regimens.
However, several TB-control programs have had considerable experience using this regimen.
Data from these programs should be examined, especially as they relate to acceptability and completion of treatment.
The analysis of aggregate data available in TB programs may also be useful in estimating the effectiveness of this regimen.
Studies in Children and Pregnant Women Studies are needed to provide information regarding the use of newer regimens for the treatment of LTBI in children and pregnant women.
The safety of pyrazinamide for pregnant women and their fetuses should be determined.
More information is needed regarding hepatotoxicity of isoniazid in pregnant and postpartum women.
Studies are needed to establish the safety and effectiveness of rifampin alone and rifampin plus pyrazinamide for treatment of LTBI in infants, children, and adolescents.
The best target populations for these studies would be HIV-infected children in places in which TB is prevalent and household contacts of TB case patients.
In addition, the effectiveness of twice-weekly regimens for treatment of LTBI in children should be confirmed.
Data concerning the safety and effectiveness of alternative therapies for MDR LTBI in children are needed.
Finally, epidemiologic research to determine the best tools to identify children at high risk for LTBI should be undertaken.
Reporting and Monitoring in New Settings These recommendations call for the establishment of LTBI treatment programs in new community settings (e.g., managed care organizations and neighborhood clinics).
Consequently, operational research will be needed to evaluate the implementation of these programs in settings other than health departments.
These studies should assess the knowledge base of treating clinicians and identify the obstacles to be overcome for the successful implementation of community-based LTBI treatment programs.
Combination Rifampin and Pyrazinamide Preparations If field and programmatic data establish the effectiveness and acceptability of the rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen for the treatment of LTBI, the availability of a combination product would facilitate its administration.
However, the argument concerning the usefulness of combination products in preventing the emergence of drug resistance in patients with active TB is not as compelling for persons being treated for LTBI.
Nonetheless, methods to facilitate provision of this treatment and increase adherence (e.g., blister packs containing medication for 2 wk of treatment for several different body weights) would be useful.
Efficacy Studies of New Drugs No novel compounds currently can be considered candidates for the treatment of LTBI.
However, several rifamycin derivatives with half-lives substantially greater than rifampin are of interest because of the possibility of widely spaced, intermittent administration.
In experimental studies involving mice, the combination of rifapentine and isoniazid given once weekly for 3 mo was as active as rifampin and pyrazinamide given daily for 2 mo (165).
Rifalazil, which has an even longer half-life, is more active than rifapentine and perhaps could be dosed less frequently without compromising efficacy (166).
The class of nitroimidazole compounds is also of interest because of their potential activity against dormant tubercle bacilli (167).
Unfortunately, no animal models of LTBI exist that optimize the preclinical evaluation of new drugs.
Studies of Immunomodulators and Vaccines Recent studies have indicated that immunotherapy with specific cytokines and immunomodulators may be beneficial to response to TB treatment.
However, their application in the treatment of LTBI is uncertain.
Some epidemiologic studies have suggested that high levels of certain cytokines (e.g., interferon gamma) may protect against the development of active TB.
If further studies support this finding, interventions that stimulate production of protective cytokines may have a role in the treatment of LTBI.
The development of a postinfection vaccine to be administered to persons with LTBI has been given high priority (168).
Decision/Cost-Effectiveness Analyses Focus on Testing for and Treatment of Latent TB Infection in High-risk and Diverse Populations Future decision and cost-effectiveness analyses should be expanded to include targeted testing.
Instead of beginning at the "treat-don't-treat" point, new models might be most useful if they begin with the decision of whether to test.
These studies should focus on groups at high risk and specific subgroups characterized by varied risks and benefits of treatment.
Using this conceptual framework will help place decision modeling more clearly into a "real world" context, incorporating the linked contingencies that exist.
Comparison of Strategies Using Both Shorter and Longer Treatment Regimens Future decision and cost-effectiveness analyses should compare the shorter course regimens to the longer, 9-mo regimen of daily isoniazid.
These analyses will benefit from investigations of the toxicities and efficacies of shorter regimens.
In addition, although adherence presumably will be better with shorter treatment regimens, the rifampin and pyrazinamide regimen may be less well-tolerated in some groups of patients, thus resulting in low adherence.
Decision and cost-effectiveness analyses should explore a range of toxicities in the models until investigations better establish these risks.
By investigating the effect of a range of toxicities and adherence on the decision outcome, studies can help identify priority areas for research.
Updated analyses on the use of alternate regimens for the treatment of drug-resistant LTBI are also needed.
Use of Multiple Analytic Perspectives When two different perspectives are relevant for a decision, both perspectives should be modeled and analyzed.
For example, when the benefits to an individual person with LTBI are different from the benefits to the public, both perspectives must be made explicit in decision models.
When decision analysis is inadequate to deal with public health issues (e.g., reduction in contagion), additional models are needed to augment views of the benefits and costs of following each viable course of action.
Policies designed to target and treat populations at high risk for TB are motivated by the need to benefit the individual patient as well as the health of the public by averting active disease in persons most likely to develop it.
As policies are instituted that identify high-risk groups for testing and treatment, the social and ethical ramifications of these policies must be considered.
The individual persons who comprise many of the high-risk groups targeted for testing and treatment often represent disenfranchised segments of urban populations (e.g., persons who are homeless, incarcerated, and medically underserved, and residents in long-term care facilities).
Ideally, the outcomes and utilities that are used in these decision models will incorporate the values and preferences of these patients and the outcomes important to the general public.
Acknowledgment The Writing Group wishes to express their appreciation to Elisha Freifeld of the ATS for administrative assistance and to Rachel Wilson of the MMWR for editorial assistance.
References American Thoracic Society, Centers for Disease Control.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
149:1359--1374.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Screening for tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in high-risk populations: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
RR-11):19--34.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Prevention and treatment of tuberculosis among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: principles of therapy and revised recommendations.
RR-20):36--42.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Essential components of a tuberculosis prevention and control program: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
RR-11):1--16.
Recent advances in epidemiological research in tuberculosis.
Ferebee, S.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis: a general review.
17:28--106.
American Thoracic Society.
Preventive treatment in tuberculosis: a statement by the Committee on Therapy.
91: 297--298.
American Thoracic Society.
Chemoprophylaxis for the prevention of tuberculosis: a statement by an Ad Hoc Committee.
96:558--562.
Garibaldi, R.
Ferebee, and M.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis: report of an outbreak.
106:357--365.
American Thoracic Society, National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association, Center for Disease Control.
Preventive treatment of tuberculosis.
104:460--463.
Kopanoff, D.
Snider, Jr., and G.
Isoniazid-related hepatitis: a U.S.
Public Health Service cooperative surveillance study.
117:991--1001.
American Thoracic Society, American Lung Association, Center for Disease Control.
Preventive therapy of tuberculosis infection.
110:371--373.
Aronson, and T.
Should young adults with a positive tuberculin test take isoniazid?
94:808--813.
Harvill, and W.
Isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: are we losing our enthusiasm?
Chest 94:138--141.
American Thoracic Society, Centers for Disease Control.
Treatment of tuberculosis and other mycobacterial diseases.
127:790--796.
Salpeter, S.
Fatal isoniazid-induced hepatitis: its risk during chemoprophylaxis.
159:560--564.
E., Jr., and L.
Preventive therapy for tuberculosis infection: an intervention in need of improvement.
130:355--356.
O'Brien, R.
Preventive therapy for tuberculosis in HIV infection: the promise and the reality.
AIDS 9:665--673.
Advisory Council on the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis elimination revisited: obstacles, opportunities, and a renewed commitment.
RR-9):1--13.
Sutherland, I.
The ten-year incidence of clinical tuberculosis following "conversion" in 2550 individuals aged 14 to 19 years.
TSRU Progress Report (KNCV, The Hague, Netherlands).
Ferebee, S.
Tuberculosis morbidity in a controlled trial of the prophylactic use of isoniazid among household contacts.
85:490--521.
McKenna, M.
McCray, and I.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States, 1986 to 1993.
332:1071--1076.
DeRiemer, P.
Ponce de Leon, R.
Steinhart, G.
Schecter, C.
Agasino, and P.
Differences in contributing factors to tuberculosis incidence in U.S.-born and foreign-born persons.
158:1797--1803.
McKenna, N.
Onorato, and K.
Long-term risk of tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States.
278:304--307.
Comstock, G.
Livesay, and S.
The prognosis of a positive tuberculin reaction in childhood and adolescence.
99:131--138.
Schluger, N.
Huberman, N.
Wolinsky, R.
Rom, and R.
Tuberculosis infection and disease among persons seeking social services in New York City.
Sepkowitz, K.
AIDS, tuberculosis, and the health care worker.
20:232--242.
Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Reichman and E.
Hershfield, editors.
Tuberculosis: A Comprehensive International Approach, 2nd ed.
Marcel Dekker, New York.
Markowitz, N., N.
Hopewell, J.
Glassroth, P.
Mangura, T.
Wilcosky, J.
Wallace, M.
Rosen, and L.
Incidence of tuberculosis in the United States among HIV-infected persons.
126:123--132.
Alcabes, G.
Friedland, R.
Klein, and E.
Schoenbaum.
High risk of active tuberculosis in HIVinfected drug users with cutaneous anergy.
268:504--509.
Schoenbaum, S.
Vermund, R.
Walker, and G.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
320:545--550.
International Union Against Tuberculosis Committee on Prophylaxis.
Efficacy of various durations of isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: five years of follow-up in the IUAT trial.
WHO 60:555--564.
Falk, A., and G.
Isoniazid (INH) prophylaxis with isoniazid in inactive tuberculosis: a Veterans Administration cooperative study.
Chest 73:44--48.
Steinbruck, P., D.
Dankova, L.
Edwards, B.
Doster, and V.
The risk of tuberculosis in patients with fibrous lesions radiographically diagnosed.
Union Tuberc.
47:144--171.
Jablon, and P.
Tuberculosis morbidity of young men in relation to tuberculin sensitivity and body build.
76:517--539.
Hong Kong Chest Service, Tuberculosis Research Centre, Madras, and British Medical Research Council.
A double-blind placebocontrolled clinical trial of three antituberculosis chemoprophylaxis regimens in patients with silicosis in Hong Kong.
145:36--41.
Silicosis in northern Rhodesia copper miners.
Health 2:96--109.
Westerholm, P., A.
Ahlmark, R.
Maasing, and I.
Silicosis and risk of lung cancer or lung tuberculosis: a cohort study.
41:339--350.
Berlyne, and E.
Tuberculosis in patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis.
67:597--602.
Chia, S., M.
Elwood, and J.
FitzGerald.
Risk of tuberculosis in dialysis patients: a population-based study.
2:989--991.
Schoenfeld, P.
Hopewell, and M.
Tuberculosis in patients with end-stage renal disease.
Pablos-MÄndez, A., J.
Blustein, and C.
The role of diabetes mellitus in the higher prevalence of tuberculosis among Hispanics.
Public Health 87:574--579.
Cooper, and P.
Tuberculosis among diabetics: the Philadelphia Survey.
Rev Tuberc.
65(Suppl.):1--50.
Oscarsson, P.
Incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis among diabetics: search among diabetics in the county of Kristianstad.
335):23--48.
Brookes, and J.
Waterhouse.
Peptic ulcer, partial gastrectomy, and pulmonary tuberculosis.
1:603--608.
Tuberculosis and gastrectomy.
Chest 87:414--415.
Steiger, Z., W.
Shannon, E.
Nedwicki, and R.
Pulmonary tuberculosis after gastric resection.
131:668--671.
Pickleman, J.
Kane, and R.
Tuberculosis after jejunoileal bypass for obesity.
Tuberculosis after jejunoileal bypass for obesity.
87:574--576.
Lichtenstein, I.
Mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients: report of five cases and review of the literature.
5:216--226.
Muñoz, P., J.
Rodirguez-Creixéms, T.
Pelaez, and E.
Tuberculosis in heart transplant recipients.
21:398--402.
Tenderich, K.
Mannebach, K.
Kleesiek, and R.
Tuberculosis in heart transplant recipients.
Chest 111:365--369.
Feld, R., G.
Bodey, and D.
Mycobacteriosis in patients with malignant disease.
136:67--70.
Kaplan,, M.
Armstrong, and P.
Tuberculosis complicating neoplastic disease: a review of 201 cases.
Cancer 33:850--858.
Schatz, M., R.
Patterson, R.
Kloner, and J.
The prevalence of tuberculosis and positive tuberculin skin tests in a steroid-treated asthmatic population.
84:261--265.
Bovornkitti, S., P.
Kangsadai, P.
Sathirapat, and P.
Oonsombatti.
Reversion and reconversion rate of tuberculin skin test reactions in correlation with use of prednisone.
Chest 38:51--55.
Bateman, E.
Is tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis necessary for patients receiving corticosteroids for respiratory disease?
87:485--487.
Choe, and Y.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in a corticosteroid-treated rheumatic disease patient population.
Friedman, L.
Williams, P.
Tejinder, and T.
Tuberculosis, AIDS, and death among substance abusers on welfare in New York City.
334:828--833.
Weiss, and C.
Tuberculosis risk factors in adults in King County, Washington, 1988 through 1990.
Public Health 84:1750--1756.
Centers for Disease Control.
A strategic plan for the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
S-3):1--25.
Goldberg, B.
Managed care and public health departments: who is responsible for the health of the population?
Public Health 19:527--537.
Bui, and J.
Screening in special populations: a "case study" of recent Vietnamese immigrants.
102:435--440.
Goldberg, and A.
Directly observed isoniazid preventive therapy for released jail inmates.
155:583--586.
Nazar-Stewart, V., and C.
Results of a directlyobserved intermittent isoniazid preventive therapy program in a shelter for homeless men.
146:57--60.
Metzger, M.
Tapia, and H.
A tuberculin screening and isoniazid preventive therapy program in an inner-city population.
159:295--300.
Gourevitch, M.
Alcabes, W.
Wasserman, and P.
Cost-effectiveness of directly observed chemoprophylaxis of tuberculosis among drug users at high risk for tuberculosis.
2:531--540.
Perlman, D.
Perkins, N.
Solomon, L.
Kochems, D.
Des Jarlais, and D.
Tuberculosis screening at a syringe exchange program.
Public Health 87:862--863.
Schluger, N.
Huberman, I.
Holzman, W.
Rom, and D.
Screening for infection and disease as a tuberculosis control measure among indigents in New York City, 1994--1997.
3:281--286.
American Thoracic Society, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis in adults and children.
161:1376--1395.
Huebner, R.
Schein, and J.
The tuberculin skin test.
17:968--975.
Cauthen, G.
Tuberculin reactions read at 2 and 7 days.
Schecter, and J.
Interpretation of the tuberculin skin test.
10:635--642.
Sepulveda, R.
Latrach, and R.
The influence of Calmette-Guérin Bacillus immunization on the booster effect of tuberculin testing in healthy young adults.
142:24--28.
McKay, A., A.
Murdzak, and A.
Determinants of tuberculin reactivity among health care workers: interpretation of positivity following BCG vaccination.
10:134--139.
Solomon, M.
Scavotto, J.
Astemborski, and D.
Prevalence of tuberculin positivity and skin test anergy in HIV-I seropositive and seronegative intravenous drug users.
267:369--373.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Anergy skin testing and tuberculosis preventive therapy for HV-1 infected persons: revised recommendations.
RR-15):1--10.
Ferebee, S.
Prevention of experimental tuberculosis with isoniazid.
Rev Tuberc.
Comstock, G.
How much isoniazid is needed for prophylaxis?
101:780--782.
Comstock, G.
How much isoniazid is needed for prevention of tuberculosis among immunocompetent adults?
3:847--850.
Snider, D.E., Jr., G.
Caras, and J.
Preventive therapy with isoniazid: cost-effectiveness of different durations of therapy.
255:1579--1583.
American Thoracic Society, Centers for Disease Control.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
134:355--363.
Hafher, and W.
Johnson, Jr.
Effect of isoniazid prophylaxis on incidence of active tuberculosis and progression of HIV infection.
Lancet 342:268--272.
Johnson, A.
Huebner, P.
Mugyenyi, R.
Mugerwa, and J.
A trial of three regimens to prevent tuberculosis in Ugandan adults infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
337:801--808.
Chakaya, J.
Odhiambo, L.
Thiong'o, J.
Plummer, J.
Nunn, and K.
Isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis in HIV-I-infected adults: results of a randomized controlled trial.
AIDS 11:875--882.
Mwinga, A., M.
Godfrey-Faussett, M.
Quigley, P.
Nyirenda, N.
Elliott, K.
McAdam, and J.
Twice weekly tuberculosis preventive therapy in HIV infection in Zambia.
AIDS 12:2447--2457.
Szabo, and W.
A controlled trial of isoniazid in persons with anergy and human immunodeficiency virus infection who are at high risk for tuberculosis.
337:315--320.
Griffith, G.
Sendi, and M.
Isoniazid prophylaxis for tuberculosis in HIV infection: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
AIDS 13:501--507.
Mitchell, J.
Zimmerman, K.
Thorgeirsson, J.
Timbrell, W.
Snodgrass, and S.
Isoniazid liver injury: clinical spectrum, pathology, and probable pathogenesis.
84:181--192.
Comstock, G.
Prevention of tuberculosis among tuberculin reactors: maximizing benefits, minimizing risks.
256:2729--2730.
Snider, D.E., Jr., and G.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis deaths: a review of available information.
145: 494--497.
Snider, Jr., W.
Rokaw, and S.
Isoniazid hepatitis among pregnant and postpartum Hispanic patients.
Health Rep.
104:151--155.
Murphy, R., R.
Swartz, and P.
Severe acetaminophen toxicity in a patient receiving isoniazid.
113:799--800.
Hunt, and A.
Isoniazid potentiation of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in the rat and 4-methylpyrazole inhibition of it.
69:115--158.
Millard, P.
Wilcosky, S.
Reade-Christopher, and D.
Isoniazid-related fatal hepatitis.
164:486--491.
Moulding, T.
Redeker, and G.
Twenty isoniazid-associated deaths in one state.
140:700--705.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Severe isoniazidassociated hepatitisNew York, 19911993.
42:545--547.
Tuberculosis control policies in major metropolitan health departments in the United States.
156:1487--1494.
Goldberg, and S.
Hepatotoxicity associated with isoniazid preventive therapy: a 7-year survey from a public health tuberculosis clinic.
281:1014--1018.
Tsevat, J., W.
Wong, and S.
Isoniazid for the tuberculin reactor: take it or leave it.
137:215--220.
Schechter, and A.
The age threshold for isoniazid chemoprophylaxis: a decision analysis for low-risk tuberculin reactors.
256:2709--2713.
Salpeter, S.
Sanders, E.
Salpeter, and D.
Monitored isoniazid prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 yr of age: a risk-benifit and cost effectiveness analysis.
127:1051--1061.
Decision analysis, public health policy, and isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for young adult tuberculin skin reactors.
150:2517--2522.
Lecoeur, H.
Truffot-Pernot, and J.
Experimental short-course preventive therapy of tuberculosis with rifampin and pyrazinamide.
140:1189--1193.
Grosset, J., C.
Truffot-Pernot, C.
Lacroix, and B.
Antagonism between isoniazid and the combination pyrazinamide-rifampin against tuberculosis infection in mice.
Antimicrob.
Agents Chemother.
36:548--551.
Dhillon, J., J.
Dickinson, K.
Sole, and D.
Preventive chemotherapy of tuberculosis in Cornell model mice with combinations of rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide.
Antimicrob.
Agents Chemother.
40:552--555.
Jabes, D., C.
Della Bruna, R.
Rossi, and P.
Effectiveness of rifabutin alone or in combination with isoniazid in preventive therapy of mouse tuberculosis.
Antimicrob.
Agents Chemother.
38:2346--2350.
Ormerod, L.
Rifampicin and isoniazid prophylactic chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
Child 78:169--171.
Joint Tuberculosis Committee of the British Thoracic Society.
Chemotherapy and management of tuberculosis in the United Kingdom.
Thorax 53:536--548.
Coberly, and J.
Desormeaux, P.
Losikoff, J.
Atkinson, L.
Moulton, M.
Contave, M.
Johnson, H.
Johnson, R.
Huebner, R.
Boutos, and R.
Rifampin and pyrazinamide vs.
isoniazid for prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-1 infected persons: an international randomized trial.
Lancet 351:786--792.
Chaisson, J.
de Lourdes Garcia, R.
Valdespino, J.
Coberly, M.
Schechter, A.
Klukowicz, M.
Barry, and R.
An international, randomized trial of rifampin and pyrazinamide versus isoniazid for prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons.
283: 1445--1450.
O'Brien, and D.
Short-course preventive therapy for tuberculosis (abstract).
Johns Hopkins University, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD.
O'Brien, and L.
USPHS tuberculosis short-course chemotherapy trial 21: effectiveness, toxicity, and acceptability.
112:397--406.
Grazcyk, J., R.
O'Brien, E.
Nimerowsak, and L.
Assessment of rifampin containing regimens for tuberculosis preventive therapy: preliminary results from a pilot study in Poland (abstract).
Magdorf, K., A.
Arizzi-Ruche, L.
O'Brien, and U.
Compliance and tolerance of new antituberculotic short- term chemoprevention regimes in childhood: a pilot study.
Pneumologie 48:761--764.
Improving patient compliance in tuberculosis treatment programs.
Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, Atlanta, GA.
Sumartojo, E.
When tuberculosis treatment fails: a social behavioral account of patient adherence.
147:1311--1320.
Morgan, and M.
Tuberculosis beliefs among recent Vietnamese refugees in New York State.
Public Health Rep.
112:66--72.
Morisky, D.
Malotte, P.
Davidson, S.
Sugland, and M.
A patient education program to improve adherence rates with antituberculosis drug regimens.
Health Educ.
17:253--267.
Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington.
Ethnic Medicine Guide.
, 
McIntosh, T.
Hoynes, and J.
A clinical trial of a financial incentive to go to the tuberculosis clinic for isoniazid after release from jail.
2:506--512.
Heal, G., R.
Elwood, and J.
FitzGerald.
Acceptance and safety of directly observed versus self-administered isoniazid preventive therapy in aboriginal peoples in British Columbia.
2:979--983.
Wobeser, W., T.
The outcome of chemoprophylaxis on tuberculosis prevention in the Canadian Plains Indian.
Invest Med.
12:149--153.
Vasilakis, and I.
Directly observed preventive therapy: turning the tide against tuberculosis.
150:727--779.
Sbarbaro, J.
Tapy, and D.
Tuberculosis screening: evaluation of a food handler's program.
Chest 83: 879-82.
Peterson, F.
Judson, and J.
A 62-dose, 6-month therapy for pulmonary and extrapulmonary tuberculosis: a twice-weekly, directly observed, and cost-effective regimen.
112:407--415.
Shafran, S.
Zarowny, J.
Deschênes, P.
Phillips, F.
Turgeon, F.
Duperval, C.
Lemieux, and W.
Schlech, III.
Determinants of rifabutin-associated uveitis in patients treated with rifabutin, clarithromycin, and ethambutol for Mycobacterium avium complex bacteremia: a multivariate analysis.
77:252--255.
Sun, E., M.
Heath-Chiozzi, D.
Cameron, A.
Granneman, C.
Maurath, and J.
In Programs and abstracts of the XI International Conference on AIDS.
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
McGregor, M.
Olliaro, L.
Wolmarans, B.
Bredell, M.
Felten, and B.
Efficacy and safety of rifabutin in the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis.
154:1462--1467.
Vernon, A., W.
Benator, A.
Khan, and L.
Acquired riifamycin monoresistance in patients with HIV-related tuberculosis treated with once-weekly rifapentine and isoniazid.
Lancet 353:1843--1847.
Jarvis, B., and H.
Rifapentine.
Drugs 56:607--616.
T., Jr., M.
Davidson, S.
Lakshnminarayan, and S.
Tuberculosis in association with pregnancy.
140:492--498.
Tuberculosis during pregnancy: the Rhode Island experience, 1987 to 1991.
Chest 106:1466--1470.
Caspery, and E.
Lymphocyte reactivity to antigen in pregnancy.
113:602--606.
Montgomery, W.
Young, Jr., and M.
The tuberculin test in pregnancy.
100:829--831.
Present, P.
Tuberculin sensitivity in pregnancy.
112:413--415.
E., Jr., P.
Johnson, and M.
Treatment of tuberculosis during pregnancy.
122:65--69.
Cantwell, M.
Costello, L.
Valway, and I.
Brief report: congenital tuberculosis.
330:1051--1054.
Scheinhorn, D.
Antituberculous therapy in pregnancy: risks to the fetus.
127:195--198.
Eggermont, E., N.
Van De Casseye, M.
Casteels-Van Daele, J.
Cosemans, M.
Verstraete, and M.
Hemorrhagic disease of the newborn in the offspring of rifampin and isoniazid treated mothers.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
1999 USPHS/IDSA guidelines for the prevention of opportunistic infections in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus: U.S.
Public Health Service (USPHS) and Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA).
RR-10):13--14.
E., Jr., and K.
Should women taking antituberculosis drugs breast-feed?
144:589--590.
Seale, and N.
Tuberculosis in children.
Little Brown, Boston, MA.
Comstock, G.
Hammes, and A.
Isoniazid prophylaxis in Alaskan boarding schools: a comparison of two doses.
100:773--779.
Preventive effects of isoniazid in the treatment of primary tuberculosis in children.
265:713--721.
O'Brien, R.
Lyle, and D.
Snider, Jr.
Hepatotoxicity from isoniazid and rifampin among children treated for tuberculosis.
Pediatrics 72:491--499.
Clinical hepatotoxicity of isoniazid in children.
Pediatrics 64:499--505.
Villarino, M.
Weismuller, M.
Maxwell, J.
Carson, and L.
Rifampin preventive therapy for tuberculosis infection: experience with 157 adolescents.
155:1735--1738.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Tuberculosis.
In Red Book: Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases, 25th ed.
American Academy of Pediatrics, Elk Grove Village, IL.
(In press) Koplan, J.
Choice of preventive treatment for isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis infection: use of decision analysis and the Delphi technique.
244:2736--2740.
Glassroth, P.
Hopewell, and L.
Preventive treatment of tuberculosis.
Chest 87:1285--1325.
Polesky, A., H.
Gottlieb, H.
Levinson, J.
O'Connell, B.
McInnis, R.
Nieves, and J.
Rifampin preventive therapy for tuberculosis in Boston's homeless.
154:1473--1477.
Livengood, J.
Bobst, and D.
Isoniazid--resistant tuberculosis: a community outbreak and report of a rifampin prophylaxis failure.
253:2847--2849.
Pablos-Mendez, A., M.
Raviglione, A.
Bustreo, D.
Lambregts-Van Weezenbeek, S.
Chaulet, and P.
Global surveillance for antituberculosis--drug resistance, 1994--1997.
338:1641--1649.
Passannante, M.
Gallagher, and L.
Preventive therapy for contacts of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a Delphi survey.
Chest 106:431--434.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Management of persons exposed to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
RR-11):61--71.
Ridzon, R., J.
Maxwell, K.
Higgins, P.
Weismuller, and I.
Asymptomatic hepatitis in persons who received alternative preventive therapy with pyrazinamide and ofloxacin.
24:1264--1265.
TrÄbucq, A.
Should ethambutol be recommended for routine treatment of tuberculosis in children?
A review of the literature.
Sigler, and V.
Quinolone arthropathy---acute toxicity to immature articular cartilage.
20:436--449.
Danisovicova, A., M.
Brezina, S.
Kayserova, E.
Kaiserova, I.
Hruskovic, K.
Orosovç, S.
Dluholucky, K.
MathÄova, I.
Marinovç, and V.
Kr mÄry, Jr.
Magnetic resonance imaging in children receiving quinolones: no evidence of quinolone-induced arthropathy---a multicenter survey.
Chemotherapy 40:209214.
Steiner, P., and M.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis in children.
4:275--282.
Swanson, D.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis in pediatrics.
42:553--581.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States: a joint statement by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
RR-4):8--9.
Chapuis, L., B.
Truffot-Pernot, R.
O'Brien, M.
Raviglione, and J.
Preventive therapy of tuberculosis with rifapentine in immunocompetent and nude mice.
150:1355--1362.
Luna-Herrera, D.
Daneluzzi, and P.
Gangadhararn.
Chemotherapeutic activity of benzoxazinorifamycin, KRM1648, against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in C57BL/6 mice.
77:154--159.
Warrener, D.
VanDevanter, D.
Sherman, M.
Langhorne, K.
Barry, and W.
A novel compound series and development candidate for the treatment of tuberculosis.
159(Suppl.):AI6.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Development of new vaccines for tuberculosis: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
RR-13):1--6.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Notice to Readers: Updated guidelines for the use of rifabutin or rifampin for the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons taking protease inhibitors or nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
49:185--189.
Table 1 Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Table 4 Return to top.
Table 5 Return to top.
Table 6 Return to top.
Table 7 Return to top.
Table 8 Return to top.
Table 9 Return to top.
Table 10 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly July 23, 1993 / 42(28);545-547 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Severe Isoniazid-Associated Hepatitis -- New York, 1991-1993 In November 1992, the New York State Department of Health was notified of a patient who underwent liver transplantation because of severe hepatitis that developed during the use of isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy (IPT) for latent tuberculous infection.
Inquiry at liver transplant centers in New York revealed other patients who had hepatitis attributed to INH.
This report summarizes findings of the ongoing investigation into the extent and causes of this problem.
Transplant coordinators at the three liver transplant centers in New York and at one in Pennsylvania provided information about any patient from New York evaluated from January 1991 through May 1993 for liver transplantation because of severe acute hepatitis attributed to INH.
Patients, relatives, and health-care providers were interviewed; medical records were reviewed; and histologic specimens were reexamined.
Of the 10 patients evaluated at these centers, one received both INH and rifampin.
Another who had received INH had discontinued its use 1 month before onset of hepatitis symptoms because the patient had been exposed to tuberculosis (TB) resistant to INH and rifampin.
Eight patients were taking INH alone (as therapy to prevent TB) at onset of hepatitis.
The eight were aged 5-68 years (median: 33 years); three (38%) were aged less than 20 years.
Six (75%) were female.
Because of the severity of illness, five of the eight patients received a liver transplant.
One of these patients died after transplantation.
Three other patients died while awaiting a donor liver.
Circumstances leading to use of IPT were determined for seven of the eight patients; in each instance, IPT was used in accordance with current recommendations (1).
For each, 300 mg of INH daily had been prescribed.
At the time INH was prescribed, three patients were given appointments for return visits within 1 month, a practice also consistent with current recommendations; two patients were scheduled to return more than 1 month after beginning INH.
Information about return visits was unavailable for three patients.
The duration of INH use before onset of hepatitis symptoms was either known or could be estimated for seven patients and ranged from 21 to 142 days (median: 57 days).
For all patients, the known or estimated duration of INH use after onset of symptoms ranged from 3 to 49 days (median: 13 days); seven continued to take INH at least 10 days after onset of symptoms.
Initial symptoms of hepatitis were fatigue in five patients, nausea in five, abdominal pain in five, and anorexia in four.
All patients had jaundice when they sought medical attention.
All eight patients denied daily or intermittent heavy alcohol use.
However, while taking INH, three patients took other medications associated with drug-induced hepatitis; one patient took phenytoin and estropipate; one, prednisone, methimazole, and nadolol; and one, metoclopramide.
One of these patients and two other patients took acetaminophen concurrently with INH, but no patient reported using more than the recommended dosage for more than 2-3 days.
None of the patients had serologic evidence of active or chronic hepatitis B infection or of acute hepatitis A.
However, two had serologic evidence of previous hepatitis B infection and two of previous hepatitis A infection.
One patient had intermediate hepatitis C-antibody results that were locally interpreted as indeterminate, and five patients had negative results for hepatitis C; the other two were not tested.
Eight histologic preparations from five patients were reexamined.
Six showed massive or submassive hepatic necrosis, the common finding for INH-associated hepatitis.
Cholestasis was predominant for the remaining two.
Reported by: M Halpern, MD, B Meyers, MD, C Miller, MD, H Bodenheimer, MD, SN Thung, MD, J Adler, MD, Mount Sinai Medical Center, D Toth, MSN, New York Univ Medical Center, D Cohen, MD, Bellevue Hospital Center, New York City; L Boccardo, MS, Strong Memorial Hospital, Rochester; G DiFerdinando, MD, G Birkhead, MD, Acting State Epidemiologist, New York State Dept of Health.
Div of Field Epidemiology, Epidemiology Program Office; Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for Prevention Svcs, CDC.
Editorial Note Editorial Note: INH was introduced in 1952 for treatment of TB.
Its use was later expanded to include prevention of tuberculous infection (primary prophylaxis) and treatment of latent infection to prevent active TB (2).
IPT treatment has an efficacy of up to 93% for persons with tuberculous infection who complete treatment (3,4).
Previous reports have described cases of severe or fatal INH-associated hepatitis (5,6).
In one study, the estimated risk for hepatitis among persons receiving INH was 20.7 per 1000 persons; among persons with hepatitis, 4.6% of cases were fatal (7).
In that study, the risk for hepatitis was approximately three times greater among persons aged greater than or equal to 35 years than among those aged less than 35 years (7).
Although 69% of persons with fatal INH-associated hepatitis have been female (8,9), absolute and relative risks for fatal INH-associated hepatitis cannot be determined because demographic characteristics of the total population receiving INH are unknown.
The patients described in this report had severe hepatitis that resulted in death or prompted liver transplantation.
However, neither the number of persons in New York who receive IPT each year nor the number who have INH-associated hepatitis are known.
Therefore, it is unclear whether the number of patients in this report represents an increase in severe or life-threatening INH-associated hepatitis (reflecting, for example, increased use of IPT) or an improvement in the detection of this problem.
As in previous reports, most patients with life-threatening INH-associated hepatitis continued to take INH after the onset of symptoms.
Hepatitis in the patients described in this and previous reports appears to be temporally related to the use of INH.
However, because there are no specific diagnostic criteria or pathologic findings for this problem, INH-associated hepatitis remains a diagnosis of exclusion.
Patients who have onset of hepatitis during or after the use of INH should be evaluated for infectious, autoimmune, and toxic causes of hepatitis.
Although severe hepatitis and death may be associated with use of INH, IPT is a principal means for preventing TB and associated complications.
To minimize possible risks, health-care providers should adhere to published guidelines (1) for selecting candidates for IPT, and patients who receive INH should be carefully monitored for adverse effects.
Patients should be informed about symptoms of hepatitis and instructed to discontinue use of INH immediately if symptoms occur and to contact their health-care provider.
Monthly clinical evaluation of patients taking INH is recommended, and education of patients regarding signs and symptoms of hepatitis should be continually reinforced.
Health-care providers should maintain a high index of suspicion for the possibility of adverse effects and promptly report severe or fatal hepatitis associated with IPT to local or state health departments.
References CDC.
Screening for tuberculosis and tuberculous infection in high-risk populations and the use of preventive therapy for tuberculous infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1990;39(no.
American Thoracic Society.
Preventive treatment in tuberculosis.
Am Rev Resp Dis 1965;91:297-8.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis: a general review.
Bibl Tuberc Med Thorac 1970;26:28-106.
Committee on Prophylaxis, International Union Against Tuberculosis.
Efficacy of various durations of isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: five years of follow-up in the IUAT trial.
Bull WHO 1982;60:555-64.
Maddrey WC, Boitnott JK.
Isoniazid hepatitis.
Ann Intern Med 1973;79:1-12.
Garibaldi RA, Drusin RE, Ferebee SH, Gregg MB.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis: report of an outbreak.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1972;106:357-65.
Kopanoff DE, Snider DE, Caras GJ.
Isoniazid-related hepatitis: a U.S.
Public Health Service cooperative surveillance study.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1978;117:991-1001.
Moulding TS, Redeker AG, Kanel GC.
Twenty isoniazid-associated deaths in one state.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;140:700-5.
Snider DE, Caras GJ.
Isoniazid-associated hepatitis deaths: a review of available information.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1992;145:494-7.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports November 4, 2005 / 54(RR12);1-81 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Controlling Tuberculosis in the United States Recommendations from the American Thoracic Society, CDC, and the Infectious Diseases Society of America Please note: An erratum has been published for this article.
To view the erratum, please click here.
Corresponding preparers: Zachary Taylor, MD, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC; Charles M.
Nolan, MD, Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, Seattle, Washington; Henry M.
Blumberg, MD, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
Summary During 1993--2003, incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in the United States decreased 44% and is now occurring at a historic low level (14,874 cases in 2003).
The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis has called for a renewed commitment to eliminating TB in the United States, and the Institute of Medicine has published a detailed plan for achieving that goal.
In this statement, the American Thoracic Society (ATS), CDC, and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) propose recommendations to improve the control and prevention of TB in the United States and to progress toward its elimination.
This statement is one in a series issued periodically by the sponsoring organizations to guide the diagnosis, treatment, control, and prevention of TB.
This statement supersedes the previous statement by ATS and CDC, which was also supported by IDSA and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP).
This statement was drafted, after an evidence-based review of the subject, by a panel of representatives of the three sponsoring organizations.
AAP, the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association, and the Canadian Thoracic Society were also represented on the panel.
This statement integrates recent scientific advances with current epidemiologic data, other recent guidelines from this series, and other sources into a coherent and practical approach to the control of TB in the United States.
Although drafted to apply to TB control activities in the United States, this statement might be of use in other countries in which persons with TB generally have access to medical and public health services and resources necessary to make a precise diagnosis of the disease; achieve curative medical treatment; and otherwise provide substantial science-based protection of the population against TB.
This statement is aimed at all persons who advocate, plan, and work at controlling and preventing TB in the United States, including persons who formulate public health policy and make decisions about allocation of resources for disease control and health maintenance and directors and staff members of state, county, and local public health agencies throughout the United States charged with control of TB.
The audience also includes the full range of medical practitioners, organizations, and institutions involved in the health care of persons in the United States who are at risk for TB.
Introduction During 1993--2003, incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in the United States decreased 44% and is now occurring at a historic low level (14,874 cases in 2003).
The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET) (1) has called for a renewed commitment to eliminating TB in the United States, and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) (2) has published a detailed plan for achieving that goal.
In this statement, the American Thoracic Society (ATS), CDC, and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) propose recommendations to improve the control and prevention of TB in the United States and to progress toward its elimination.
This statement is one in a series issued periodically by the sponsoring organizations to guide the diagnosis, treatment, control, and prevention of TB (3--5).
This statement supersedes one published in 1992 by ATS and CDC, which also was supported by IDSA and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) (6).
This statement was drafted, after an evidence-based review of the subject, by a panel of representatives of the three sponsoring organizations.
AAP, the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association (NTCA), and the Canadian Thoracic Society were also represented on the panel.
The recommendations contained in this statement (see Graded Recommendations for the Control and Prevention of Tuberculosis) were rated for their strength by use of a letter grade and for the quality of the evidence on which they were based by use of a Roman numeral (Table 1) (7).
No rating was assigned to recommendations that are considered to be standard practice (i.e., medical or administrative practices conducted routinely by qualified persons who are experienced in their fields).
This statement integrates recent scientific advances with current epidemiologic data, other recent guidelines from this series (3--5), and other sources (2,8--10) into a coherent and practical approach to the control of TB in the United States.
Although drafted to apply to TB control activities in the United States, this statement might be of use in other countries in which persons with TB generally have access to medical and public health services and resources necessary to make a precise diagnosis of the disease; achieve curative medical treatment; and otherwise provide substantial science-based protection of the population against TB.
This statement is aimed at all persons who advocate, plan, and work at controlling and preventing TB in the United States, including persons who formulate public health policy and make decisions about allocation of resources for disease control and health maintenance and directors and staff members of state, county, and local public health agencies throughout the United States charged with control of TB.
The audience also includes the full range of medical practitioners, organizations, and institutions involved in the health care of persons in the United States who are at risk for TB.
Throughout this document, the terms latent TB infection (LTBI), TB, TB disease, and infectious TB disease are used.
LTBI is used to designate a condition in which an individual is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis but does not currently have active disease.
Such patients are at risk for progressing to tuberculosis disease.
Treatment of LTBI (previously called preventive therapy or chemoprophylaxis) is indicated for those at increased risk for progression as described in the text.
Persons with LTBI are asymptomatic and have a negative chest radiograph.
TB, TB disease, and infectious TB indicate that the disease caused by M.
tuberculosis is clinically active; patients with TB are generally symptomatic for disease.
Positive culture results for M.
tuberculosis complex are an indication of TB disease.
Infectious TB refers to TB disease of the lungs or larynx; persons with infectious TB have the potential to transmit M.
tuberculosis to other persons.
Progress Toward TB Elimination A strategic plan for the elimination of TB in the United States was published in 1989 (11), when the United States was experiencing a resurgence of TB (Figure 1).
The TB resurgence was attributable to the expansion of HIV infection, nosocomial transmission of M.
tuberculosis, multidrug-resistant TB, and increasing immigration from counties with a high incidence of TB.
Decision makers also realized that the U.S.
infrastructure for TB control had deteriorated (12); this problem was corrected by a substantial infusion of resources at the national, state, and local levels (13).
As a result, the increasing incidence of TB was arrested; during 1993--2003, an uninterrupted 44% decline in incidence occurred, and in 2003, TB incidence reached a historic low level.
This success in responding to the first resurgence of TB in decades indicates that a coherent national strategy; coordination of local, state, and federal action; and availability of adequate resources can result in dramatic declines in TB incidence.
This success also raised again the possible elimination of TB, and in 1999, ACET reaffirmed the goal of tuberculosis elimination in the United States (1).
The prospect of eliminating tuberculosis was critically analyzed in an independent study published by IOM in 2000 (2).
Calling for greater levels of effort and resources than were then available, the IOM report proposed a comprehensive plan to 1) adjust control measures to the declining incidence of disease; 2) accelerate the decline in incidence by increasing targeted testing and treatment of LTBI; 3) develop new tools for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention; 4) increase U.S.
involvement in global control of TB; and 5) mobilize and sustain public support for TB elimination.
The report also noted the cyclical nature of the U.S.
response to TB and warned against allowing another "cycle of neglect" to occur, similar to that which caused the 1985--1992 resurgence.
As noted, the 44% decrease in incidence of TB in the United States during 1993--2003 (14,15) has been attributed to the development of effective interventions enabled by increased resources at the national, state, and local levels (1,2,16).
Whereas institutional resources targeted specific problems such as transmission of TB in health-care facilities, public resources were earmarked largely for public health agencies, which used them to rebuild the TB-control infrastructure (13,17).
A primary objective of these efforts was to increase the rate of completion of therapy among persons with TB, which was achieved by innovative case-management strategies, including greater use of directly observed therapy (DOT).
Continued progress in the control of TB in the United States will require consolidation of the gains made through improved cure rates and implementation of new strategies to further reduce incidence of TB.
Challenges to Progress Toward TB Elimination The development of optimal strategies to guide continuing efforts in TB control depends on understanding the challenges confronting the effort.
The five most important challenges to successful control of TB in the United States are 1) prevalence of TB among foreign-born persons residing in the United States; 2) delays in detecting and reporting cases of pulmonary TB; 3) deficiencies in protecting contacts of persons with infectious TB and in preventing and responding to TB outbreaks; 4) persistence of a substantial population of persons living in the United States with LTBI who are at risk for progression to TB disease; and 5) maintaining clinical and public health expertise in an era of declining TB incidence.
These five concerns (Box 1) serve as the focal point for the recommendations made in this statement to control and prevent TB in the United States.
Prevalence of TB Among Foreign-Born Persons Residing in the United States Once a disease that predominately affected U.S.-born persons, TB now affects a comparable number of foreign-born persons who reside in the United States permanently or temporarily, although such persons make up only 11% of the U.S.
population (14).
During 1993--2003, as TB incidence in the United States declined sharply, incidence among foreign-born persons changed little (14).
Lack of access to medical services because of cultural, linguistic, financial, or legal barriers results in delays in diagnosis and treatment of TB among foreign-born persons and in ongoing transmission of the disease (18--21).
Successful control of TB in the United States and progress toward its elimination depend on the development of effective strategies to control and prevent the disease among foreign-born persons.
Delays in Detection and Reporting of Cases of Pulmonary TB New cases of infectious TB should be diagnosed and reported as early as possible in the course of the illness so curative treatment can be initiated, transmission interrupted, and public health responses (e.g., contact investigation and case-management services) promptly arranged.
However, delays in case detection and reporting continue to occur; these delays are attributed to medical errors (22--26) and to patient factors (e.g., lack of understanding about TB, fear of the authorities, and lack of access to medical services) (18--20).
In addition, genotyping studies have revealed evidence of persistent transmission of M.
tuberculosis in communities that have implemented highly successful control measures (27--29), suggesting that such transmission occurred before a diagnosis was received.
Improvements in the detection of TB cases, leading to earlier diagnosis and treatment, would bring substantial benefits to affected patients and their contacts, decrease TB among children, and prevent outbreaks.
Deficiencies in Protecting Contacts of Person with Infectious TB and in Preventing and Responding to TB Outbreaks Although following up contacts is among the highest public health priorities in responding to a case of TB, problems in conducting contact investigations have been reported (30--32).
Approaches to contact investigations vary widely from program to program, and traditional investigative methods are not well adapted to certain populations at high risk.
Only half of at-risk contacts complete a course of treatment for LTBI (32).
Reducing the risk of TB among contacts through the development of better methods of identification, evaluation, and management would lead to substantial personal and public health benefits and facilitate progress toward eliminating TB in the United States.
Delayed detection of TB cases and suboptimal contact investigation can lead to TB outbreaks, which are increasingly reported (26,33--38).
Persistent social problems such as crowding in homeless shelters and detention facilities are contributing factors to the upsurge in TB outbreaks.
The majority of jurisdictions lack the expertise and resources needed to conduct surveillance for TB outbreaks and to respond effectively when they occur.
Outbreaks have become an important element in the epidemiology of TB, and measures to detect, manage, and prevent them are needed.
Persistence of a Substantial Population of Persons Living in the United States with LTBI Who Are at Risk for Progression to TB Disease An estimated 9.6--14.9 million persons residing in the United States have LTBI (39).
This pool of persons with latent infection is continually supplemented by immigration from areas of the world with a high incidence of TB and by ongoing person-to-person transmission among certain populations at high risk.
For TB disease to be prevented among persons with LTBI, those at highest risk must be identified and receive curative treatment (4).
Progress toward the elimination of TB in the United States requires the development of new cost-effective strategies for targeted testing and treatment of persons with LTBI (17,40).
Maintaining Clinical and Public Health Expertise in an Era of Declining TB Incidence Detecting a TB case, curing a person with TB, and protecting contacts of such persons requires that clinicians and the staff members of public health agencies responsible for TB have specific expertise.
However, as TB becomes less common, maintaining such expertise throughout the loosely coordinated TB-control system is challenging.
As noted previously, medical errors associated with the detection of TB cases are common, and deficiencies exist in important public health responsibilities such as contact investigations and outbreak response.
Errors in the treatment and management of TB patients continue to occur (41,42).
Innovative approaches to education of medical practitioners, new models for organizing TB services (2), and a clear understanding and acceptance of roles and responsibilities by an expanded group of participants in TB control will be needed to ensure that the clinical and public health expertise necessary to progress toward the elimination of TB are maintained.
Meeting the Challenges to TB Elimination Further improvements in the control and prevention of TB in the United States will require a continued strong public health infrastructure and involvement of a range of health professionals outside the public health sector.
The traditional model of TB control in the United States, in which planning and execution reside almost exclusively with the public health sector (17), is no longer the optimal approach during a sustained drive toward the elimination of TB.
This statement emphasizes that success in controlling TB and progressing toward its elimination in the United States will depend on the integrated activities of professionals from different fields in the health sciences.
This statement proposes specific measures to enhance TB control so as to meet the most important challenges; affirms the essential role of the public health sector in planning, coordinating, and evaluating the effort (43); proposes roles and responsibilities for the full range of participants; and introduces new approaches to the detection of TB cases, contact investigations, and targeted testing and treatment of persons with LTBI.
The plan to reduce the incidence of TB in the United States must be viewed in the larger context of the global effort to control TB.
The global TB burden is substantial and increasing.
In 2000, an estimated 8.3 million (7.9--9.2 million) new cases of TB occurred, and 1.84 million (1.59--2.22 million) persons died from TB; during 1997--2000, the worldwide TB case rate increased 1.8%/year (44).
TB is increasing worldwide as a result of inadequate local resources and the global epidemic of HIV infection.
In sub-Saharan Africa, the rate of TB cases is increasing 6.4%/year (44).
ACET (1), IOM (2), and other public health authorities (45,46) have acknowledged that TB will not be eliminated in the United States until the global epidemic is brought under control, and they have called for greater U.S.
involvement in global control efforts.
In response, CDC and ATS have become active participants in a multinational partnership (Stop TB Partnership) that was formed to guide the global efforts against TB.
public and private entities also have provided assistance to countries with a high burden of TB and funding for research to develop new, improved tools for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, including an effective vaccine.
Despite the global TB epidemic, substantial gains can be made toward elimination of TB in the United States by focusing on improvements in existing clinical and public health practices (47--49).
However, the drive toward TB elimination in the United States will be resource-intensive (1,12).
Public health agencies that plan and coordinate TB- control efforts in states and communities need sufficient strength in terms of personnel, facilities, and training to discharge their responsibilities successfully, and the growing number of nonpublic health contributors to TB control, all pursuing diverse individual and institutional goals, should receive value for their contributions.
Continued progress toward TB elimination in the United States will require strengthening the nation's public health infrastructure rather than reducing it (1,50).
Basic Principles of TB Control in the United States Four prioritized strategies exist to prevent and control TB in the United States (17), as follows: The first strategy is to promptly detect and report persons who have contracted TB.
Because the majority of persons with TB receive a diagnosis when they seek medical care for symptoms caused by progression of the disease, health-care providers, particularly those providing primary health care to populations at high risk, are key contributors to the detection of TB cases and to case reporting to the jurisdictional public health agency for surveillance purposes and for facilitating a treatment plan and case-management services.
The second strategy is to protect close contacts of patients with contagious TB from contracting TB infection and disease.
Contact evaluation not only identifies persons in the early stages of LTBI, when the risk for disease is greatest (30--32), but is also an important tool to detect further cases of TB disease.
The third strategy is to take concerted action to prevent TB among the substantial population of U.S.
residents with LTBI.
This is accomplished by identifying those at highest risk for progression from latent infection to active TB through targeted testing and administration of a curative course of treatment (4).
Two approaches exist for increasing targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
The first approach is to encourage clinic-based testing of persons who are under a clinician's care for a medical condition, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or diabetes mellitus, who are at risk for progressing from LTBI to active TB (4).
The second approach is to establish specific programs to reach persons who have an increased prevalence of LTBI, an increased risk for developing active disease if LTBI is present, or both (51).
The fourth strategy is to reduce the rising burden of TB from recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis by identifying settings at high risk for transmission and applying effective infection-control measures to reduce the risk.
This strategy was used during the 1985--1992 TB resurgence, when disease attributable to recent transmission was an important component of the increase in TB incidence (52--54).
TB morbidity attributable to recent spread of M.
tuberculosis continues to be a prominent part of the epidemiology of the disease in the United States.
Data collected by CDC's National Tuberculosis Genotyping and Surveillance Network at seven sentinel surveillance sites indicate that 44% of M.
tuberculosis isolates from persons with newly diagnosed cases of TB were clustered with at least one other intrasite isolate, often representing TB disease associated with recent spread of M.
tuberculosis (55).
Institutional infection-control measures developed in the 1990s in response to the 1985--1992 resurgence in transmission of M.
tuberculosis in the United States (10) have been highly successful in health-care facilities (56).
However, newly recognized high-risk environments (26,27,33,34,37,38) present challenges to the implementation of effective infection-control measures.
Further attention is required to control the transmission of M.
tuberculosis in these environments.
Structure of this Statement This statement provides comprehensive guidelines for the full spectrum of activities involved in controlling and preventing TB in the United States.
The remainder of this statement is structured in eight sections, as follows: Scientific Basis of TB Control.
This section reviews the base of knowledge of how TB is transmitted and how the disease is distributed in the U.S.
population, including new information based on genotyping studies.
It provides basic background information as a review for current workers in the field and orients health-care professionals who become new participants in TB-control efforts.
Principles and Practice of TB Control.
This section makes the transition from the scientific knowledge base to clinical and public health practice by discussing the goal of TB control in the United States, which is to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by TB by preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis from persons with contagious forms of the disease to uninfected persons and preventing progression from LTBI to TB disease among persons who have contracted M.
tuberculosis infection.
This section also provides basic background information as a review for current workers in the field and serves as an orientation for health-care professionals who become new participants in TB-control efforts.
Recommended Roles and Responsibilities for TB Control.
This section outlines roles and responsibilities for the spectrum of participants in the diverse clinical and public health activities that lead to the control and prevention of TB.
The paramount role of the public health sector is reviewed, followed by proposed responsibilities for nine prominent nonpublic health partners in tuberculosis control: medical practitioners, civil surgeons, community health centers, hospitals, academic institutions, medical professional organizations, community-based organizations, correctional facilities and the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Because responsibilities for the nonpublic health sector have not been specified previously, this information also should be useful to policy makers and advocates for strengthened TB control.
Essential Components of TB Control in the United States.
This section gives detailed recommendations for enhancing the core elements of TB control: case detection and management, contact investigations, and targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
Recommendations are provided for targeted public education to neutralize the stigma of TB and facilitate earlier care-seeking behavior among patients and for education of health-care professionals from whom patients with TB seek care.
A set of five clinical scenarios is presented in which a diagnosis of TB should be undertaken in primary medical practice, and guidelines are presented for activities among certain populations to detect TB among persons who have not sought medical care.
Guidelines are provided for a conducting a systematic, step-by-step contact investigation.
All jurisdictional TB-control programs are urged to develop written policies and procedures on the basis of these guidelines.
Recommended procedures are also outlined for conducting surveillance for TB outbreaks and for developing an outbreak response plan.
In addition, a framework is presented for identifying and prioritizing subpopulations and settings within a community that are at high risk for TB and that should receive targeted testing and treatment for LTBI.
Priorities for high-risk populations should be established on the basis of the expected impact and efficacy of the intervention.
Persons who are readily accessible and have preexisting access to health-care services (e.g., prisoners, patients receiving ongoing clinic-based care for HIV infection, and immigrants and refugees with abnormalities on preimmigration chest radiographs) should receive the highest priority.
An approach is also presented to reach members of new immigrant and refugee communities, who often exist on the margin of U.S.
Control of TB Among Populations at High Risk.
On the basis of the epidemiology of TB in the United States, this section provides specific recommendations for controlling and preventing TB among five populations: 1) children; 2) foreign-born persons; 3) HIV-infected persons; 4) homeless persons; and 5) detainees and prisoners in correctional facilities.
Each population is readily identifiable and has been demonstrated to be at risk for TB exposure or progression from exposure to disease, or both.
Surveillance and surveys from throughout the United States indicate that certain epidemiologic patterns of TB are consistently observed among these populations, suggesting that the recommended control measures are generalizable.
Control of TB in Health-Care Facilities and Other High-Risk Environments.
This section recommends infection-control measures to prevent the transmission of M.
tuberculosis in high-risk settings.
The approach to control of TB that was developed for health-care facilities continues to be the most successful model and is discussed in detail.
The recommendations in this section have been updated with respect to the assessment of institutional risk for TB.
Three levels of risk (low, medium, and potential ongoing transmission) are outlined on the basis of community and institutional experience with TB.
An associated recommendation is that the frequency of testing of employees for LTBI should be based on the institution's risk category.
Recommendations also are provided for control of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in correctional facilities, homeless shelters, and other newly identified high-risk environments.
Research Needs To Enhance TB Control.
This section defines gaps in knowledge and deficiencies in technology that limit current efforts to control and prevent TB.
Additional research is needed in these areas to produce the evidence base and the tools for optimal diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB.
This section should be useful to persons who formulate U.S.
public health policy and research priorities and members of academic professions interested in contributing to enhanced TB control, both in the United States and throughout the world.
Graded Recommendations for Control and Prevention of TB.
This section groups detailed graded recommendations for each area discussed in this report.
Scientific Basis of TB Control Transmission of TB M.
tuberculosis is nearly always transmitted through an airborne route, with the infecting organisms being carried in droplets of secretions (droplet nuclei) that are expelled into the surrounding air when a person with pulmonary TB coughs, talks, sings, or sneezes.
Person-to-person transmission of M.
tuberculosis is determined by certain characteristics of the source-case and of the person exposed to the source-person and by the environment in which the exposure takes place (Box 2).
The virulence of the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis might also be a determining factor for transmission.
Characteristics of the Source-Case By the time persons with pulmonary TB come to medical attention, 30%--40% of persons identified as their close personal contacts have evidence of LTBI (30).
The highest rate of infection among contacts follows intense exposure to patients whose sputum smears are positive for acid-fast bacilli (AFB) (31,57--59) (Figure 2).
Because patients with cavitary pulmonary TB are more likely than those without pulmonary cavities to be sputum AFB smear-positive (60), patients with cavitary pulmonary disease have greater potential to transmit TB.
Such persons also have a greater frequency of cough, so the triad of cavitary pulmonary disease, sputum AFB smear-positivity, and frequency of cough are likely related causal factors for infectivity.
AFB smear-negative TB patients also transmit TB, but with lower potential than smear-positive patients.
Patients with sputum AFB smear-negative pulmonary TB account for approximately 17% of TB transmission (61).
Characteristics of the Exposed Person A study of elderly nursing home residents indicated that persons with initially positive tuberculin skin test results during periods of endemic exposure to TB had a much lower risk for TB than those whose skin test results were initially negative (62,63).
This finding suggests that preexisting LTBI confers protection against becoming infected upon subsequent exposure and progression to active disease.
Similarly, having prior disease caused by M.
tuberculosis had been assumed to confer protection against reinfection with a new strain of M.
tuberculosis.
However, molecular typing of paired isolates of M.
tuberculosis from patients with recurrent episodes of TB disease has demonstrated that reinfection does occur among immunocompetent and immunocompromised persons (64,65).
The classic means of protecting persons exposed to infectious diseases is vaccination.
Because of its proven efficacy in protecting infants and young children from meningeal and miliary TB (66), vaccination against TB with Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerín (BCG) is used worldwide (although not in the United States).
This protective effect against the disseminated forms of TB in infants and children is likely based on the ability of BCG to prevent progression of the primary infection when administered at that stage of life (67).
Epidemiologic evidence suggests that BCG immunization does not protect against the development of infection with M.
tuberculosis upon exposure (68), and use of BCG has not had an impact on the global epidemiology of TB.
One recent retrospective study found that BCG protective efficacy can persist for 50--60 years, indicating that a single dose might have a long duration of effect (69).
A meta-analysis indicated that overall BCG reduced the risk for TB 50% (66); however, another meta-analysis that examined protection over time demonstrated a decrease in efficacy of 5%--14% in seven randomized controlled trials and an increase of 18% in three others (70).
An effective vaccine against M.
tuberculosis is needed for global TB control to be achieved.
Because only 30%--40% of persons with close exposure to a patient with pulmonary TB become infected (30,31), innate immunity might protect certain persons from infection (71).
The innate mechanisms that protect against the development of infection are largely uncharacterized (71).
Although immunocompromised persons (e.g., those with HIV infection) are at increased risk for progression to TB disease after infection with M.
tuberculosis, no definitive evidence exists that immunocompromised persons, including those with HIV infection, have increased susceptibility to infection upon exposure.
Observational studies suggest that population-based variability in susceptibility to TB might be related to the length of time a population has lived in the presence of M.
tuberculosis and has thus developed resistance to infection through natural selection (72--74).
However, the genetic basis for susceptibility or resistance to TB is not well understood (72,75).
Characteristics of the Exposure Studies that have stratified contacts of persons with pulmonary TB according to time spent with the infected person indicate that the risk for becoming infected with M.
tuberculosis is in part determined by the frequency and duration of exposure (60).
In a given environment shared by a patient with pulmonary TB and a contact, the risk for transmitting the infection varies with the density of infectious droplet nuclei in the air and how long the air is inhaled.
Indoors, tubercle bacilli are expelled into a finite volume of air, and, unless effective ventilation exists, droplet nuclei containing M.
tuberculosis might remain suspended in ambient air (76).
Exposures in confined air systems with little or no ventilation pose a major risk for transmission of TB; this has been demonstrated in homes, ships, trains, office buildings, and health-care institutions (77--80).
When contact occurs outdoors, TB bacilli expelled from the respiratory tract of an infectious person are rapidly dispersed and are quickly rendered nonviable by sunlight (77).
The risk for transmission during such encounters is very limited.
Considerable attention has been given to transmission of M.
tuberculosis during air travel.
tuberculosis infection is highest for passengers and flight crew members sitting or working near an infectious person (81,82).
However, the overall public health importance of such events is negligible (77,81).
Virulence of the Infecting Strain of M.
tuberculosis Although much is known about factors that contribute to the risk for transmission of M.
tuberculosis from person to person, the role of the organism itself is only beginning to be understood (83).
Genetic variability is believed to affect the capability of M.
tuberculosis strains to be transmitted or to cause disease once transmitted, or both.
tuberculosis W-strain family, a member of the globally spread Beijing family (84), is a group of clonally related multidrug-resistant organisms of M.
tuberculosis that caused nosocomial outbreaks involving HIV-infected persons in New York City (NYC) during 1991--1994 (85,86).
W-family organisms, which have also been associated with TB outbreaks worldwide, are believed to have evolved from a single strain of M.
tuberculosis that developed resistance-conferring mutations in multiple genes.
The growth of W-family organisms in human macrophages is four- to eightfold higher than that of strains that cause few or no secondary cases of TB; this enhanced ability to replicate in human macrophages might contribute to the organism's potential for enhanced transmission (87).
tuberculosis loses pathogenicity as it acquires resistance to drugs is not known.
Isoniazid-resistant M.
tuberculosis strains are less virulent than drug-susceptible isolates in guinea pigs (88), and genotyping studies from San Francisco, California, and from the Netherlands indicated that isoniazid-resistant strains are much less likely to be associated with clusters of TB cases than drug-susceptible strains (89,90).
Nevertheless, because person-to-person spread has been demonstrated repeatedly, persons with TB with drug-resistant isolates should receive the same public health attention at the programmatic level as those with drug-susceptible isolates (91,92).
Effect of Chemotherapy on Infectiousness Patients with drug-susceptible pulmonary and other forms of infectious TB rapidly become noninfectious after institution of effective multiple-drug chemotherapy.
This principle has been established by studies demonstrating that household contacts of persons with infectious pulmonary TB who were treated at home after a brief period of hospitalization for institution of therapy developed LTBI at a frequency no greater than that of persons with pulmonary TB who were hospitalized for 1 year (93) or until sputum cultures became negative (94).
This potent effect of chemotherapy on infectiousness is likely attributable, at least in part, to the rapid elimination of viable M.
tuberculosis from sputum (95) and to reduction in cough frequency (96).
The ability of chemotherapy to eliminate infectivity is one reason why detecting infectious cases and promptly instituting multiple-drug therapy is the primary means of interrupting the spread of TB in the United States.
The effect of chemotherapy to eliminate infectiousness was once thought to occur rapidly, and patients on chemotherapy were thought not to be infectious (97,98).
However, no ideal test exists to assess the infective potential of a TB patient on treatment, and infectivity is unlikely to disappear immediately after multidrug therapy is started.
Quantitative bacteriologic studies indicate that the concentration of viable M.
Thus, if no factor other than the elimination of viable M.
tuberculosis from sputum were to account for the loss of infectivity during treatment, the majority of patients (at least those with infection attributable to isolates susceptible to isoniazid) who have received treatment for as few as 2 days with the standard regimen (i.e., isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide) could be assumed to have an infective potential that averages 10% of that at the time of diagnosis.
This statement presents general guidelines on elimination of infectivity with treatment (Box 3).
However, decisions about infectiousness of a person on treatment for TB should always be individualized on the basis of 1) the extent of illness; 2) the presence of cavitary pulmonary disease; 3) the degree of positivity of sputum AFB smear results; 4) the frequency and strength of cough; 5) the likelihood of infection with multidrug-resistant organisms; and 6) the nature and circumstances of the contact between the infected person and exposed contacts (101).
Patients who remain in hospitals or reside either temporarily or permanently in congregate settings (e.g., shelters and correctional facilities) are subject to different criteria for infectiousness.
In such congregate settings, identification and protection of close contacts is not possible during the early phase of treatment, and more stringent criteria for determining absence of infectivity (i.e., three consecutive AFB-negative sputum smears) should be followed (10).
All patients with suspected or proven multidrug resistant TB should be subjected to these more stringent criteria for absence of infectivity (10).
Progression from LTBI to TB Disease Although the human immune response is highly effective in controlling primary infection resulting from exposure to M.
tuberculosis among the majority of immunocompetent persons, all viable organisms might not be eliminated.
tuberculosis is thus able to establish latency, a period during which the infected person is asymptomatic but harbors M.
tuberculosis organisms that might cause disease later (4,71).
The mechanisms involved in latency and persistence are not completely understood (71,72).
The tuberculin skin test measures delayed-type hypersensitivity; QFT-G, an ex vivo test for detecting latent M.
tuberculosis infection, measures a component of cell-mediated immune response (102).
QFT-G is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and CDC will publish guidelines on its use.
CDC had previously published guidelines for use of QuantiFERON®-TB, an earlier version of the test that is no longer available (103).
T SPOT-TB,® an enzyme-linked immunospot assay for IFN-g, is marketed in Europe along with QFT-G but is not FDA-approved for use in the United States.
Although approved by FDA, the Tine Test® is not recommended for the diagnosis of M.
tuberculosis infection.
Tests available in other countries to diagnose M.
tuberculosis infection (e.g., T SPOT-TB and Heaf test) are not recommended for clinical use in the United States.
Once a person has contracted LTBI, the risk for progression to TB disease varies.
The greatest risk for progression to disease occurs within the first 2 years after infection, when approximately half of the 5%--10% lifetime risk occurs (4,104).
Multiple clinical conditions also are associated with increased risk for progression from LTBI to TB disease.
HIV infection is the strongest known risk factor (4).
Other key risk factors because of their prevalence in the U.S.
population are diabetes mellitus (105), acquisition of LTBI in infancy or early childhood, and apical fibro-nodular changes on chest radiograph (106).
A recent addition to the known risk factors for progression from LTBI to TB disease is the use of therapeutic agents that antagonize the effect of cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) and have been proven to be highly effective treating autoimmune-related conditions (e.g., Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis) (107).
Cases of TB have been reported among patients receiving all three licensed TNF-a antagonists (i.e., infliximab, etanercept, and adalimimab) (108).
CDC has published interim guidelines for preventing TB when these agents are used (109).
Epidemiology of TB in the United States Surveillance (i.e., the systematic collection, analysis, and dissemination of data) is a critical component of successful TB control, providing essential information needed to 1) determine patterns and trends of the disease; 2) identify populations and settings at high risk; and 3) establish priorities for control and prevention activities.
Surveillance is also essential for quality-assurance purposes, program evaluation, and measurement of progress toward TB elimination.
In addition to providing the epidemiologic profile of TB in a given jurisdiction, state and local surveillance are essential to national TB surveillance.
CDC's national TB surveillance system publishes epidemiologic analyses of reported TB cases in the United States (110).
Data for the national TB surveillance system are reported by state health departments in accordance with standard TB case-definition and case-report formats (110,111).
The system tracked the reversal of the declining trend in TB incidence in the United States in the mid-1980s, the peak of the resurgence in 1992 (with a 20% increase in cases reported during 1985--1992), and the subsequent 44% decline to an all-time low number (14,871) and rate (5.1 cases/100,000 population) of TB cases in 2003 (14,15) (Figure 1).
Geographic Distribution of TB Wide disparities exist in the geographic distribution of TB cases in the United States.
These states along with New Jersey accounted for approximately 75% of the overall decrease in cases since 1992.
Demographic Distribution of TB In 2003, adults aged 15--64 years accounted for 73.6% of reported TB cases.
In 2003, the white, non-Hispanic population accounted for only 19% of reported cases of TB, and TB incidence among the four other racial/ethnic populations for which data were available was 5.7--21.0 times that of non-Hispanic whites (Table 2).
Foreign-born persons accounted for 94% of TB cases among Asians and 74% of cases among Hispanics, whereas 74% of cases among non-Hispanic blacks occurred among persons born in the United States (15).
Distribution of TB by Socioeconomic and Employment Status Socioeconomic status (SES).
Low SES is associated with an increased risk for TB.
An analysis of national surveillance data that assigned socioeconomic indicator values on the basis of residence zip code indicated that the risk for TB increased with lower SES for six indicators (crowding, education, income, poverty, public assistance, and unemployment), with crowding having the greatest impact (112).
Risk for TB increased uniformly between socioeconomic quartile for each indicator, similar to other socioeconomic health gradients for other chronic diseases, except for crowding, for which risk was concentrated in the lowest quartile.
Adjusting for SES accounted for approximately half of the increased risk for TB associated with race/ethnicity among U.S.-born blacks, Hispanics, and American Indians (112).
Occupation.
Increased incidence of TB among persons with certain occupations is attributable to exposure in the work environment and to an increased likelihood that workers will have other risk factors unrelated to occupation, such as foreign birth.
A 29-state study of patients with clinically active TB reported during 1984--1985 indicated that increased incidence was independent of occupation.
An association between general SES groupings of occupations and risk for TB also was demonstrated in that study (113).
TB among health-care workers (HCWs).
Because transmission of M.
tuberculosis in health-care institutions was a contributing factor to the resurgence of TB during 1985--1992, recommendations were developed to prevent transmission in these settings (10).
In 2003, persons reported to have been HCWs in the 2 years before receiving their diagnoses accounted for 3.1% of reported TB cases nationwide (14).
However, the elevated risk among HCWs might be attributable to other factors (e.g., birth in a country with a high incidence of TB) (114).
A multistate occupational survey indicated that the majority of HCWs did not have a higher risk for TB than the general population; respiratory therapists, however, did appear to be at greater risk (113).
Identification of Populations at High Risk for TB Contacts of infectious persons.
A high prevalence of TB disease and LTBI has been documented among close contacts of persons with infectious pulmonary TB (31).
A study of approximately 1,000 persons from urban sites with pulmonary AFB sputum smear-positive TB indicated that more than one third of their contacts had positive tuberculin skin tests and that 2% of all close contacts had active TB.
Foreign-born persons.
The proportion of TB cases in the United States occurring among foreign-born persons increased progressively during the 1990s; in 2003, persons born outside the United States accounted for 53% of reported cases (14) (Figure 3).
Among states and cities, however, this profile can change rapidly, reflecting changes in patterns of immigration and refugee settlement (21).
Surveillance data indicate that incidence of TB among foreign-born persons is approximately 23 cases/100,000 population (14).
Incidence varied by county of origin, appearing to reflect incidence of TB in the country of birth (21,115,116).
In 2003, approximately 47% of foreign-born persons with TB received their diagnoses within 5 years of their arrival in the United States, and 19% received their diagnoses within 1 year of arrival.
Among foreign-born persons, TB case rates decreased with longer duration of residence in the United States.
HIV-infected persons.
Because reporting of HIV infection among persons with TB is not complete, the exact prevalence of HIV infection among such persons is unknown.
During 1993--2001, the prevalence of reported HIV infection occurring among persons also reported with TB decreased from 15% to 8% (14); this decrease has been attributed, in part, to reduced transmission of TB among HIV-infected persons (16).
According to a recent worldwide epidemiologic assessment, however, 26% of adult TB cases in the United States are attributable to HIV infection (44).
Homeless persons.
In 2003, persons known to have been homeless in the year before receiving a diagnosis accounted for 6.3% of cases of TB nationwide.
On the basis of available population estimates (117), incidence of TB among homeless persons is approximately 30--40/100,000 population, more than five times the national case rate.
In addition, outbreaks of TB linked to overnight shelters continue to occur among homeless persons and likely contribute to the increased incidence of TB among that population (119,120).
Other populations at high risk.
In 2003, persons known to have injected drugs in the year before receiving a diagnosis accounted for 2.2% of reported cases of TB, and noninjection drug use was reported by 7.3% of persons with TB.
In certain U.S.
communities, injection drug use is sufficiently prevalent so as to constitute a high risk for epidemiologic importance rather than simply an individual risk factor, especially when overlap exists between injection drug use and HIV infection (121,122).
TB Among Detainees and Prisoners in Correctional Facilities The proportion of cases of TB occurring among inmates of prisons and jails has remained stable at approximately 3%--4% since data began to be collected in 1993; it was 3.2% in 2003 (14).
TB transmission in correctional facilities contributes to the greater risk among those populations, presumably because of the difficulties in detecting cases of infectious TB and in identifying, evaluating, and treating contacts in these settings (37,126).
TB outbreaks occur in both prison and jail settings.
Dedicated housing units for prison inmates with HIV infection were sites of transmission in California in 1995 (126) and South Carolina in 1999 and in South Carolina in 1999 (37).
Transmission leading to TB infection in the community also was documented in an outbreak that occurred in a jail in Tennessee during 1995--1997 (127,128) that involved approximately 40 inmates; contact investigations were incomplete because of brief jail terms and frequent movement of inmates.
During the same period, 43% of patients with TB in the surrounding community had previously been incarcerated in that jail (127), and, after 2 years, the jail outbreak strain was more prevalent in the community than it was during the jail outbreak.
Genotyping studies indicated that the outbreak strain accounted for approximately 25% of TB cases in the community, including those among patients with no history of incarceration (128).
Contributions of Genotyping of M.
tuberculosis M.
tuberculosis genotyping refers to procedures developed to identify M.
tuberculosis isolates that are identical in specific parts of the genome (83).
To date, M.
tuberculosis genotyping has been based on polymorphisms in the number and genomic location of mycobacterial repetitive elements.
The most widely used genotyping test for M.
tuberculosis is restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of the distribution of the insertion sequence IS6110 (129).
tuberculosis isolates with identical DNA patterns in an established genotyping test often have been linked through recent transmission among the persons from whom they were isolated.
When coupled with traditional epidemiologic investigations, analyses of the genotype of M.
tuberculosis strains have confirmed suspected transmission and identified unsuspected transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
These analyses have also identified risk factors for recent infection with rapid progression to disease, demonstrated exogenous reinfection with different strains, identified weaknesses in conventional contact investigations, and documented the existence of laboratory cross-contamination.
Genotyping has become an increasingly useful tool for studying the pathogenesis, epidemiology, and transmission of TB.
Epidemiology of TB Among Contacts in Outbreak Settings Conventional contact investigations have used the concentric circles approach to collect information and screen household contacts, coworkers, and increasingly distant contacts for TB infection and disease (17).
The concentric circles model has been described previously (130).
However, this method might not always be adequate in out-of-household settings.
In community-based studies from San Francisco (131), Zurich (132), and Amsterdam (133), only 5%--10% of persons with clustered IS6110-based genotyping patterns were identified as contacts by the source-person in the cluster.
This finding indicates that either 1) transmission of M.
tuberculosis might occur more commonly than suspected and is not easily detected by conventional contact tracing investigations or 2) genotype clustering does not necessarily represent recent transmission (55).
Because genotyping studies discover only missed or mismanaged contacts (i.e., those that subsequently receive a diagnosis of TB), such studies cannot explain the successes of the process or the number of cases that were prevented.
Certain populations (e.g., the urban homeless) present specific challenges to conducting conventional contact investigations.
Genotyping studies have provided information about chains of transmission in these populations (118,119).
In a prospective study of TB transmission in Los Angeles, the degree of homelessness and use of daytime services at three shelters were factors that were independently associated with genotype clustering (119).
Additional studies support the idea that specific locations can be associated with recent or ongoing transmission of M.
tuberculosis among homeless persons.
Two studies among predominantly HIV-infected men have demonstrated evidence of transmission at specific bars in the community (134,135).
Genotyping techniques have confirmed TB transmission in HIV residential facilities (136), crack houses (i.e., settings in which crack cocaine is sold or used) (137), hospitals and clinics (54), and prisons (138,139).
TB transmission also has been demonstrated among church choirs (140) and renal transplant patients (141) and in association with processing of contaminated medical waste (142) and with bronchoscopy (143,144).
Communitywide Epidemiology of TB TB might arise because of rapid progression from a recently acquired M.
tuberculosis infection, from progression of LTBI to TB disease, or occasionally from exogenous reinfection (145).
The majority of genotyping studies have assumed that clustered isolates in a population-based survey reflect recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
Certain studies have identified epidemiologic links between clustered TB cases, inferring that the clustered cases are part of a chain of transmission from a single common source or from multiple common sources (131,146).
The number and proportion of population-based cases of TB that occur in clusters representing recent or ongoing transmission of M.
tuberculosis have varied from study to study; frequency of clustering has varied from 17%--18% (in Vancouver, Canada) to 30%--40% (in U.S.
urban areas) (131,147,148).
Youth, being a member of a racial or ethnic minority population, homelessness, substance abuse, and HIV infection have been associated with clustering (131,133, 148,149).
The increasing incidence of TB among foreign-born persons underscores the need to understand transmission dynamics among this population.
In San Francisco, two parallel TB epidemics have been described (150,151), one among foreign-born persons that was characterized by a low rate of genotype clustering and the other among U.S-born persons that was characterized by a high rate of genotype clustering.
Among foreign-born persons, clustered strains were more likely to be found among patients with HIV infection (152).
Other Contributions of Genotyping Genotyping can determine whether a patient with a recurrent episode of TB has relapsed with the original strain of M.
tuberculosis or has developed exogenous reinfection with a new strain (64,153).
In Cape Town, South Africa, where incidence of TB is high and considerable ongoing transmission exists, 16 (2.3%) of 698 patients had more than one episode of TB disease.
In 12 (75%) of the 16 recurrent cases, the pairs of M.
tuberculosis isolates had different IS6110-based genotyping patterns, indicating exogenous reinfection (154).
However, in areas with a low incidence of TB, episodes of exogenous reinfection are uncommon (153).
Because TB incidence in the majority of areas of the United States is low and decreasing, reinfection is unlikely to be a major cause of TB recurrence.
Genotyping has greatly facilitated the identification of false-positive cultures for M.
tuberculosis resulting from laboratory cross-contamination of specimens.
Previously, false-positive cultures (which might lead to unnecessary treatment for patients, unnecessary work for public health programs in investigating cases and pseudo-outbreaks, and unnecessary costs to the health-care system) were difficult to substantiate (155).
Because of its capability to determine clonality among M.
tuberculosis strains, genotyping has been applied extensively to verify suspected false-positive cultures (156--158) and to study the causes and prevalence of laboratory cross-contamination (159,160).
The Role of Genotyping of M.
tuberculosis in TB-Control Programs In 2004, CDC established the Tuberculosis Genotyping Program (TBGP) to enable rapid genotyping of isolates from every patient in the United States with culture-positive TB (161).
State TB programs may submit one M.
tuberculosis isolate from each culture-positive case within their jurisdictions to a contracted genotyping laboratory.
A detailed manual describing this program, including information on how to interpret genotyping test results and how to integrate genotyping into TB-control activities, has been published (162).
Genotyping information is essential to optimal TB control in two settings.
First, genotyping is integral to the detection and control of TB outbreaks, including ruling a suspected outbreak in or out and pinpointing involved cases and the site or sites of transmission (54,136--144).
Second, genotyping is essential to detect errors in handling and processing of M.
tuberculosis isolates (including laboratory cross-contamination) that lead to reports of false-positive cultures for M.
tuberculosis (156,158--160,163).
More extensive use of M.
tuberculosis genotyping for TB control depends on the availability of sufficient program resources to compare results with information from traditional epidemiologic investigative techniques.
Time-framed genotyping surveys and good fieldwork can unravel uncertainties in the epidemiology of TB in problematic populations at high risk (150--152,164).
Genotyping surveys and epidemiologic investigations also can be used as a program monitoring tool to determine the adequacy of contact investigations (29,119,132--134,164--166) and evaluate the success of control measures designed to interrupt transmission of M.
tuberculosis among certain populations or settings (167).
Programs that use genotyping for surveillance of all of the jurisdiction's M.
tuberculosis isolates should work closely on an ongoing basis with the genotyping laboratory and commit sufficient resources to compare genotyping results with those of traditional epidemiologic investigations.
Information from both sources is needed for optimum interpretation of the complex epidemiologic patterns of TB in the United States (84,168).
Principles and Practice of TB Control Basic Principles of TB Control The goal of TB control in the United States is to reduce morbidity and mortality caused by TB by 1) preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis from persons with contagious forms of the disease to uninfected persons and 2) preventing progression from LTBI to TB disease among persons who have contracted M.
tuberculosis infection.
Four fundamental strategies are used to achieve this goal (Box 4) (17,169), as follows: Early and accurate detection, diagnosis, and reporting of TB cases leading to initiation and completion of treatment.
Detecting and reporting suspected cases of TB is the key step in stopping transmission of M.
tuberculosis because it leads to prompt initiation of effective multiple-drug treatment, which rapidly reduces infectiousness (Box 3).
Completion of a full course of standard therapy is essential to prevent treatment failure, relapse, and the acquisition of drug resistance (5).
TB is commonly diagnosed when a person seeks medical attention for symptoms caused by the disease or a concomitant medical condition.
Thus, health-care providers, particularly those providing primary health-care to populations at high risk, are key contributors to TB case detection.
A suspected or confirmed case of TB should be reported immediately to the jurisdictional public health agency.
Reporting of new cases is essential to initiate public health responses, including institution of a treatment plan, case-management services, and evaluation of contacts, and for surveillance purposes.
This statement contains detailed recommendations for improving detection of TB cases.
Treatment of TB is the subject of another statement in this series from ATS, CDC, and IDSA (5).
Identification of contacts of patients with infectious TB and treatment of those at risk with an effective drug regimen.
The evaluation of contacts of cases of infectious TB is one of the most productive methods of identifying adults and children with LTBI at high risk for progression to TB disease and persons in the early stages of TB disease (30,31).
Contact investigations therefore serve as an important means of detecting tuberculosis cases and at the same time identify persons in the early stage of LTBI, when the risk for progression to TB disease is high and the benefit of treatment is greatest (4).
Identification of other persons with LTBI at risk for progression to TB disease and treatment of those persons with an effective drug regimen.
Targeted testing is intended to identify persons other than TB contacts who have an increased risk for acquiring TB and to offer such persons diagnostic testing for M.
tuberculosis infection and treatment, if indicated, to prevent subsequent progression to TB disease (4).
This approach is critical to the eventual elimination of TB in the United States, because it is the only means of preventing TB in the substantial pool of persons with LTBI at high risk for progression to TB disease.
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI is also a primary means of controlling TB among foreign-born persons at high risk residing in the United States because genotyping surveys have consistently demonstrated that the majority of TB cases in that population are attributable to progression from LTBI (150--152).
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI is best accomplished through cost-effective programs aimed at patients and populations identified on the basis of local surveillance data as being at increased risk for TB (51).
Guidelines for this activity have been published (4).
This statement includes recommendations for organizing and conducting programs for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
Identification of settings in which a high risk exists for transmission of M.
tuberculosis and application of effective infection-control measures.
For the rising burden of TB from recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis to be reduced, settings at high risk for transmission should be identified, and effective infection-control measures should be taken to reduce the risk.
In the 1980s, the majority of cases of TB in the United States were believed to arise through activation of LTBI, and few cases were believed to occur as a consequence of recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis (6).
During the 1985--1992 TB resurgence, however, disease caused by recent transmission was a critical component of the increase in TB incidence.
TB outbreaks associated with person-to-person spread occurred in different venues, most prominently in health-care facilities (52--54,170).
TB morbidity caused by recent spread of M.
tuberculosis has continued to be a prominent part of the epidemiology of the disease in the United States.
During 1996--2000, when incidence of TB was in constant decline, a survey involving 10,883 M.
tuberculosis isolates collected from persons with newly diagnosed cases from seven NTGSN sentinel surveillance sites indicated that 52% were clustered with at least one other isolate (average genotype cluster size: six isolates), frequently representing cases of TB disease associated with recent spread of M.
tuberculosis (171).
Outbreaks of TB are also being reported with greater frequency (33,34,172,173).
Vaccination with BCG is not recommended as a means to control TB in the United States because of the unproved efficacy of the vaccine in the U.S.
population (174,175), its effect of confounding the results of tuberculin skin testing (176) and the success of other measures in reducing incidence of TB (16).
During the 1985--1992 TB resurgence, the documented spread of TB, including multidrug-resistant TB, in health-care institutions and in the community (52--54,177,178) stimulated interest in the potential use of BCG to protect HCWs and others from exposure to M.
tuberculosis.
In 1996, a statement from ACET and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (179) recommended vaccination with BCG for 1) infants and children with exposure to M.
tuberculosis in settings in which other protective measures are either inaccessible or proven to be ineffective and 2) HCWs when likelihood of exposure to multidrug-resistant TB is high and recommended control measures have not been successful.
With improved TB control in the United States and the decline of multidrug-resistant TB (13), use of BCG for protection against TB has declined.
An improved vaccine, particularly one that protects adults with LTBI against acquiring TB disease, would accelerate progress toward TB elimination in the United States (180).
Deficiencies in TB Control Because TB control is a complex undertaking that involves multiple participants and processes, mistakes often occur, with adverse consequences.
Common errors include 1) delays among persons with active TB obtaining health care; 2) delayed detection and diagnosis of active TB; 3) failed or delayed reporting of TB; 4) failure to complete an effective course of treatment for TB; 5) missed opportunities to prevent TB among children; and 6) deficiencies in conducting contact investigations and in recognizing and responding to outbreaks.
Delays in Obtaining Health Care Homeless patients with TB symptoms often delay seeking care or experience delays in gaining access to care (181), and fear of immigration authorities has been associated with patient delay among foreign-born persons (19).
Patients who speak languages other than English or who are aged 55--64 years are more likely than others to delay seeking care (20).
Cultural factors that might affect health-seeking behavior by foreign-born persons include misinterpretation or minimization of symptoms, self-care by using over-the-counter or folk medicines, and the social stigma associated with TB (18).
In certain societies, women with TB are less likely to take advantage of health-care services, perhaps because of stigma associated with the diagnosis, including a lower likelihood of marriage (182,183).
Even in areas with open access to public health clinical services, persons at risk for TB might not seek evaluation and treatment because they are not aware that these resources are available for persons with limited financial means (118,184--186).
Delayed Detection and Diagnosis of Active TB Delayed detection of a case of TB and resulting delays in initiation of treatment can occur if the clinician does not suspect the diagnosis.
A survey conducted in NYC in 1994 found that the median delay within the health-care system (defined as the time from first contact to initiation of treatment for active TB) was 15 days (range: 0--430 days) (20).
Asians and homeless persons were more likely to encounter delays in receiving a diagnosis than non-Asians and persons with stable housing.
Persons without cough who had AFB smear-negative TB or who did not have a chest radiograph at their initial visit also experienced delays.
In London, England, delays in diagnosis occurred among whites and among women of all racial/ethnic populations (187).
Regardless of the reason, the consequences of delays in diagnosis and initiation of effective therapy can be serious.
In Maine, a shipyard worker aged 32 years who was a TB contact and who was untreated despite having symptoms of active TB, repeated medical visits, and a chest radiograph consistent with active TB did not receive a diagnosis of TB until 8 months after he became ill (188), and 21 additional cases of TB occurred among his contacts.
Of 9,898 persons who were investigated as contacts, 697 (7.0%) persons received diagnoses of new LTBIs.
Subsequently, 12 additional TB cases among fellow students were linked to the source-case, and 292 (23%) of 1,263 students tested had positive tuberculin skin tests.
Other instances of delayed or missed diagnoses of TB have been reported that have resulted in extended periods of infectiousness and deaths (22,24,178).
These problems reflect the increasing difficulty in maintaining clinical expertise in the recognition of TB in the face of declining disease incidence (41).
Recognition of TB among patients with AFB-negative sputum smear results is a challenge for practitioners and has been associated with delays in reporting and treatment (22,189,190).
Delayed Reporting of TB Failure to promptly report a new TB case delays public health responses (e.g., institution of a treatment plan, case-management services, and protection of contacts).
Although TB cases in the United States rarely remain unreported, timeliness of reporting varies (median: 7--38 days) (190).
Failure to Receive and Complete a Standard Course of Treatment for Active TB Failure to receive and complete a standard course of treatment for TB has adverse consequences, including treatment failure, relapse, increased TB transmission, and the emergence of drug-resistant TB (191--193).
At least two reasons exist for failure to complete standard treatment.
Patients frequently fail to adhere to the lengthy course of treatment (188).
Poor adherence to treatment regimens might result from difficulties with access to the health-care system, cultural factors, homelessness, substance abuse, lack of social support, rapid clearing of symptoms, or forgetfulness (18,194).
Also, as TB has become less common, clinicians might fail to use current treatment regimens (48).
These adverse outcomes are preventable by case-management strategies provided by TB-control programs, including use of DOT (13,195,196).
Missed Opportunities To Prevent TB Among Children The absence of TB infection and disease among children is a key indicator of a community's success in interrupting the transmission of TB (197).
The 1985--1992 TB resurgence included a reversal of the long-term decline in the incidence of TB among children, which indicated a failure of the public health system to prevent disease transmission (197).
A study of 165 children reported with TB in California in 1994 found that for 59 (37%), an adult source-case was identified (198).
Factors that contributed to transmission to children included delayed reporting, delayed initiation of contact investigations, and poor management of adult source-cases.
Improvements in contact investigations might have prevented 17 (10%) of those cases (198).
Deficiencies in Conducting Contact Investigations and in Recognizing and Responding to Outbreaks Deficiencies in contact investigations and failure to recognize and respond to TB outbreaks are among the most important challenges to optimal control of TB in the United States.
These topics are discussed in detail in this statement along with the other essential components of TB control.
Importance of TB Training and Education The 1985--1992 TB resurgence led ACET to call for a renewed focus on training and education as an integral part of strategies for TB control, prevention, and elimination (1).
Factors indicating a need for this focus include the following: Deficiencies in clinical knowledge and practice.
Errors have been documented on the part of medical practitioners and TB-control staff in the diagnosis, reporting, treatment, and follow-up of TB cases.
These deficiencies indicate a broad need for training and education throughout the TB-control system, among both public health and nonpublic health participants.
Staffing and workforce concerns.
Ongoing education and training within TB-control programs are required to inform staff members about programmatic and patient management issues.
For example, implementation of DOT for treatment of TB disease or LTBI or the integration of a new category of HCWs (e.g., outreach workers) might have substantial training requirements.
Changes in the state or local epidemiology of TB and the emergence of new populations or settings of high risk also might necessitate additional training or retraining of staff members.
New guidelines and recommendations.
TB guidelines and recommendations are regularly published and updated (3--5).
However, the promulgation of guidelines alone does not necessarily improve provider practices (42,199).
Guidelines are more effective when supplemented with targeted education (42).
Education of new contributors to TB control.
TB elimination will require that new categories of health professionals, not previously identified as contributors to TB control in the community, take on expanded responsibilities.
Education strategies for these new partners will be needed.
For example, clinicians should understand the local epidemiology of TB sufficiently to know if their practice includes patients at high risk.
They should know how to identify and treat patients at high risk who have LTBI.
They should be able to recognize the signs and symptoms of TB disease and understand how to evaluate and treat persons with suspected cases.
They should understand the public health aspects of TB, including the need for prompt reporting and the facilitating role of the jurisdictional health agency in case management.
In particular, strategies are needed to maintain TB knowledge and expertise among clinicians in areas of low TB incidence (48).
Diminished teaching about TB in medical and nursing schools.
As TB case rates declined in the United States, schools of medicine and nursing gradually reduced their emphasis on TB education.
With the resurgence of TB in the United States during 1985--1992 and recognition of the extent of the global epidemic, clinicians and public health programs have been faced with the challenges of learning to diagnose, manage, and control TB as if it were a new disease (42,200,201).
Education is essential to the future control of TB in the United States and globally (2), and creating interest in TB among students of the health professions is critical to generating the competent workforce needed to eliminate TB in the United States and contribute human resources to fighting the global TB epidemic.
Educating Patients and Communities at High Risk Education of patients by clinicians, TB program staff, and trusted community members promotes acceptance and adherence to authoritative advice about controlling and preventing TB.
Such education can influence patients' decision-making about whether to accept and complete treatment for LTBI (202).
Because cultural and health beliefs might act as barriers to effective control of TB (18,19), an increasing need exists for education targeted at populations at high risk (19).
TB-control programs should enlist community-based organizations and other key informants to discover the health beliefs, norms, and values of communities at high risk in their jurisdictions (202,203).
Professional associations and academic institutions (including schools of medicine, public health, and nursing) will be valuable partners in developing an understanding of the health perceptions of these populations.
Education materials should be developed with input from the target audience to ensure that they are culturally and linguistically appropriate (203,204).
The Strategic Plan for TB Training and Education In 1997, CDC funded a project to develop a Strategic Plan for Tuberculosis Training and Education (the Strategic Plan) that provided guidance to agencies and organizations in the United States that offer TB training and education for public- and private-sector providers.
The Strategic Plan specified critical areas requiring attention, including 1) the need for culturally competent programs and materials, 2) effective methods and technologies, 3) collaboration and cooperation among training and education partners outside TB-control programs, and 4) adequate funding for training and education efforts.
Other Resources for TB Training and Education Substantial progress has been made in developing and disseminating resources for TB training and education.
CDC and national TB centers, NTCA, regional controllers associations (e.g., the Northeast Tuberculosis Training Consortium), state and local health departments, and the National Laboratory Training Network have all conducted education programs or developed training and education materials.
In 2001, as stipulated by the Strategic Plan, the Tuberculosis Education and Training Network was established.
The network is coordinated by CDC and includes educators in local, state, and territorial health agencies.
CDC has also developed the Tuberculosis Information CD-ROM, Version 3, and the Tuberculosis Education and Training Resource Guide; these products are designed to enhance awareness and accessibility of resources (available at  for TB education and training.
The establishment in 2004 of the National Tuberculosis Curriculum Coordinating Center at the University of California at San Diego by the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute signals a commitment by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to provide basic TB education for health-care students and providers.
Professional societies and specialty boards are means for reaching private medical providers.
Including TB as a subject in state medical society programs, hospital grand rounds, and medical specialty board examinations would be a valuable resource for providers serving populations at low risk.
New linkages should be established to reach providers serving populations at high risk (e.g., foreign-born, homeless, and HIV-infected persons).
For example, the AIDS Education and Training Centers funded by the Health Resources and Services Administration are a resource for reaching HIV/AIDS providers, and foreign physicians' associations and community-based organizations are potential partners for reaching international medical graduates and health-care providers of foreign-born persons.
Laboratory Services for Optimal TB Control The diagnosis of TB, management of patients with the disease, and public health control services rely on accurate laboratory tests.
Laboratory services are an essential component of effective TB control, providing key information to clinicians (for patient care) and public health agencies (for control services).
Thus, effective TB control requires a network of public and private laboratories to optimize laboratory testing and the flow of information.
Public health laboratorians, as a component of the public health sector with a mandate for TB control, should take a leadership role in developing laboratory networks and in facilitating communication among laboratorians, clinicians, and TB controllers.
Role of Public Health Laboratories Public health laboratories should ensure that clinicians and public health agencies within their jurisdictions have ready access to reliable laboratory tests for diagnosis and treatment of TB (206).
Specific tasks to ensure the availability, accessibility, and quality of essential laboratory services are 1) assessment of the cost and availability of TB laboratory services and 2) development of strategic plans to implement and maintain a systems approach to TB testing (207).
In this process, public health laboratories should assess and monitor the competence of laboratories that perform any testing related to the diagnosis, management, and control of TB within their jurisdictions; develop guidelines for reporting and tracking of laboratory results; and educate laboratory staff members, health-care providers, and public health officials about available laboratory tests, new technologies, and indications for their use.
For example, public health laboratories should lead the discussion on the costs, logistics requirements (e.g., collection and transport of clinical specimens within the required time), and quality assurance issues associated with the use of QFT-G, the new test for latent M.
tuberculosis infection (103).
The process of coordinating TB laboratory services is usually best organized at the state level (208), and the Association of Public Health Laboratories has compiled descriptions of successful organizational models for integrated laboratory services (207).
Role of Clinical Laboratories Because the majority of initial TB laboratory work related to diagnosis of TB is conducted in hospitals, clinics, and independent laboratories (205), clinicians and public health agencies are increasingly dependent on the laboratory sector for the confirmation of reported cases, and public health laboratories are similarly dependent for referral of specimens for confirmatory testing and archiving.
However, as a result of laboratory consolidation at the regional or national level (206), private laboratories are experiencing more difficulties in fulfilling this function.
In certain instances, consolidation has resulted in poor communication among laboratory personnel, clinicians, and public health agencies (206,209).
Problems also have been identified in specimen transport, test result reporting, and quality control (206,209,210).
In response, certain states (e.g., Wisconsin*) have adopted laws and regulations that mandate essential clinical laboratory services for TB control (e.g., drug susceptibility testing and reporting of the first M.
tuberculosis isolate from each patient and submission of isolates to the state public health laboratory).
The clinical laboratory sector should accept the responsibilities that accompany its emergence as a provider of essential TB testing (209).
This statement provides recommendations to guide turnaround times for essential tests, reporting to clinicians and jurisdictional public health agencies, and referral of specimens to public health laboratories or their designees.
Essential Laboratory Tests Six tests performed in clinical microbiologic laboratories are recommended for optimal TB control services (Table 3).
These laboratory tests should be available to every clinician involved in TB diagnosis and management and to jurisdictional public health agencies charged with TB control.
In addition, other tests that are useful in the diagnosis and management of selected patients and for specific TB control activities include M.
tuberculosis genotyping, serum drug levels, tests used for monitoring for drug toxicity, and QFT-G for diagnosis of latent M.
tuberculosis infection (5,103,162).
Access to these specialized tests should be provided as needed.
For suspected cases of pulmonary TB, sputum smears for AFB provide a reliable indication of potential infectiousness; and for AFB smear-positive pulmonary cases, a nucleic acid amplification assay (NAA) provides rapid confirmation that the infecting mycobacteria are from the M.
tuberculosis complex.
These two tests, which should be available with rapid turnaround times from specimen collection, facilitate decisions about initiating treatment for TB or a non-TB pulmonary infection, and, if TB is diagnosed, for reporting the case and establishing priority to the contact investigation.
Growth detection and identification of M.
tuberculosis by culture of sputum and other affected tissue is essential for confirmation of the identity of the organism and for subsequent drug susceptibility testing, which is recommended on all initial isolates for each patient.
Cultures also remain the cornerstone for the diagnosis of TB in smear-negative pulmonary and extrapulmonary cases and, along with sputum smears for AFB, provide the basis for monitoring a patient's response to treatment, for release from isolation, and for diagnosing treatment failure and relapse (5).
The use of liquid media systems, which can provide information in less time than solid media (in certain cases, 7 days), should be available in all laboratories that perform culture for mycobacteria.
Detailed descriptions of these recommended laboratory tests; recommendations for their correct use; and methods for collecting, handling, and transporting specimens have been published (3,211).
Recommended Roles and Responsibilities for TB Control This section delineates organizational and operational responsibilities of the public health sector that are essential to achieve the goals of TB control in the United States.
However, a central premise of this statement is that continuing progress toward elimination of TB in the United States will require the collaborative efforts of a broad range of persons, organizations, and institutions in addition to the public health sector, which has responsibility for the enterprise.
For example, clinicians who provide primary health care and other specialized health services to patients at high risk for TB, academic medical centers that educate and train them, hospitals in which they practice, and professional organizations that serve their interests can all make meaningful contributions to improve the detection of TB cases, one of the most important obstacles to continuing progress (Box 1).
Similarly, important roles exist for such entities as community-based organizations representing populations at risk for TB and the pharmaceutical industry, which takes academic advances and develops the tools for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB.
This section discusses the importance to the TB elimination effort of participants outside the public health sector and proposes specific roles and responsibilities that each could fulfill toward that goal.
The sponsoring organizations intend for these proposals to serve as the basis for discussion and consensus building on the important roles and responsibilities of the nonpublic health sector in continuing progress toward the elimination of TB in the United States.
Public Health Sector The infrastructure for TB control has been discussed extensively in recent years.
An analysis of contributing factors to the rise in the number of TB cases during 1985--1992 concluded that the resurgence never would have occurred had the public health infrastructure been left in place and supported appropriately (212).
The need to maintain the TB-control infrastructure has been expressed repeatedly (1,2,13,213,214).
Public health activities have been described as consisting of four interrelated components: mission/purpose, structural capacity, processes, and outcomes (215).
Among these four components, structural capacity (i.e., persons who do the work of public health, their skills and capacities, the places where they work, the way they are organized, the equipment and systems available to them, and the fiscal resources they command) represents the public health infrastructure for TB control.
The responsibility for TB control and prevention in the United States rests with the public health system through federal, state, county, and local public health agencies.
Programs conducted by these agencies were critical to the progress that has been made in TB control, and the deterioration of those programs following the loss of categoric federal funding contributed to the resurgence of TB in the United States during 1985--1992 (1,2,13,212--214).
Since 1992, as a result of increased funding for TB-control programs, national incidence of TB disease has declined.
In 2004, $147 million in federal funds were dedicated to domestic TB control, compared with $6.6 million in 1989, during the resurgence.
These funds have been used to rebuild public health--based TB-control systems, and the success achieved highlights the critical role of the public health system in TB control.
TB control in the United States has traditionally been conducted through categoric programs established to address the medical aspects of the disease and the specific interventions required for its successful prevention and management (17,216).
CDC's Division of TB Elimination, in partnership with other CDC entities that conduct TB-related work, provides guidance and oversight to state and local jurisdictions by conducting nationwide surveillance; developing national policies, priorities, and guidelines; and providing funding, direct assistance, education, and program evaluation.
Setting the national agenda for support of basic and clinical research is also a critical function of federal health agencies, including NIH and CDC, with support from nongovernment organizations such as ATS and IDSA.
To meet the priorities of basic TB control (Box 4), state and local public health agencies with responsibility for TB control should provide or ensure the provision of a core group of functions (Box 5).
Jurisdictional public health agencies should ensure that competent services providing these core elements function adequately within their jurisdictions and are available with minimal barriers to all residents.
How the core components of TB control are organized differs among jurisdictions, depending on the local burden of disease, the overall approach to public health services within the jurisdiction, budgetary considerations, the availability of services within and outside the public health sector, and the relationships among potential participants.
Certain jurisdictions provide core program components themselves, whereas other jurisdictions contract with others to provide them.
In the majority of cases, the organization includes a mix in which the public health agency provides certain services, contracts for others, and works collaboratively with partners and stakeholders to accomplish the remainder (48).
Sharing of direct services, including patient management, increases the importance of the public health sector, which retains responsibility for success of the process.
This evolving role of the public health sector in TB control is consistent with the widely accepted concept of the three core functions of public health that IOM proposed in 1988: assessment, policy development, and assurance (43).
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 included provisions to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information.
To implement these privacy protections, the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services has issued a ruling on how health-care providers may use and disclose personally identifiable health information about their patients; these regulations provide the first national standards for requirements regarding the privacy of health information (217).
HIPAA also recognizes the legitimate need for public health authorities and others responsible for ensuring the public's health and safety to have access to personal health information to conduct their missions and the importance of public health disease reporting by health-care providers.
HIPAA permits disclosure of personal health information to public health authorities legally authorized to collect and receive the information for specified public health purposes.
Such information may be disclosed without written authorization from the patient.
Disclosures required by state and local public health or other laws are also permitted.
Thus, HIPAA should not be a barrier to the reporting of suspected and verified TB cases by health-care providers, including health-care institutions.
Additional information about HIPAA is available at 
Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Public Health Agencies Establishment of standards and guidelines.
Federal agencies should take a leadership role in developing and promulgating standards of public health and clinical practice for TB, in collaboration with professional medical societies, state and local TB-control programs, and other organizations.
These partnerships have served the medical and public health communities and should be continued and strengthened.
Financial and technical support for TB control and elimination.
Federal agencies should continue to provide financial and technical support for TB control and elimination within their own institutions and jurisdictions and provide direct support to state and local TB-control programs through CDC cooperative agreements.
In addition, CDC should continue to provide technical assistance through the assignment of medical and administrative staff to state and local TB-control programs and by responding to requests for assistance with TB outbreaks.
In relation to these responsibilities, CDC should determine the level of necessary financial support from the federal government needed to control and prevent TB in the United States.
National reporting, surveillance, and analysis.
Federal agencies should continue to support the collection, aggregation, and distribution of national surveillance data through cooperative agreements with state and local TB programs.
Consultation and technical support from federal resources are also essential to maintain the state and local network of surveillance throughout the United States.
Program oversight and monitoring.
Federal agencies should facilitate development of quality improvement programs and establishment of quality indicators for state and local TB-control programs.
Education and training.
Although multiple participants in TB control are responsible for education and training of patients and health-care providers, federal agencies should take the lead in developing training and education materials to facilitate TB control at the state and local levels.
Public health research.
Federal agencies should plan, conduct, and support basic, clinical, and public health research leading to improvements in TB diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.
Evaluation of immigrants and refugees outside the United States.
Federal agencies are responsible for ensuring that legal immigrants and refugees are evaluated appropriately for TB before their arrival in the United States and for notifying state and local TB-control programs of the arrival in their jurisdictions of immigrants and refugees with suspected TB.
Agencies involved in evaluating and reporting arriving immigrants and refugees should ensure the quality and timeliness of those processes.
Coordination of interstate TB-control efforts.
Federal agencies should take the lead in resolving interstate TB-control issues, including movement of TB patients across state lines and multistate TB outbreaks.
Roles and Responsibilities of Jurisdictional Public Health Agencies Planning and policy development.
The blueprint for TB control for a given area is a responsibility of the jurisdictional public health agency.
Policies and plans should be based on a thorough understanding of local epidemiologic data and on the capabilities and capacities of clinical and support services for clients, the fiscal resources available for TB control, and ongoing indicators of program performance.
Open collaboration is essential among public health officials and community stakeholders, experts in medical and nonmedical TB management, laboratory directors, and professional organizations, all of whom provide practical perspectives to the content of state and local TB-control policy.
Policies and procedures should reflect national and local standards of care and should offer guidance in the management of TB disease and LTBI.
A written TB control plan that is updated regularly should be distributed widely to all interested and involved parties.
The plan should assign specific roles and responsibilities; define essential pathways of communication between providers, laboratories, and the public health system; and assign sufficient resources, both human and financial, to ensure its implementation, including a responsible case manager for each suspected and verified case of TB.
The plan should include the provision of expert consultation and oversight for TB-related matters to clinicians, institutions, and communities.
It should provide special guidance to local laboratories that process TB-related samples, assist local authorities in conducting contact or outbreak investigations and DOT, and provide culturally appropriate information to the community.
Systems to minimize or eliminate financial and cultural barriers to TB control should be integral to the plan, and persons with TB and persons at high risk with TB infection should receive culturally appropriate education about TB and clinical services, including treatment, with no consideration for their ability to pay.
Finally, the plan should be consistent with current legal statutes related to TB control.
Relevant laws and regulations should be reviewed periodically and updated as necessary to ensure consistency with currently recommended clinical and public health practice (e.g., mandatory reporting laws, institutional infection-control procedures, hospital and correctional system discharge planning, and involuntary confinement laws) (218).
Collection and analysis of epidemiologic and other data.
The development of policies and plans for the control of TB within a jurisdiction requires a detailed understanding of the epidemiology of TB within the jurisdiction.
Mandatory and timely case reporting from community sources (e.g., providers, laboratories, hospitals, and pharmacies) should be enforced and evaluated regularly.
To facilitate the reporting process and data analyses, jurisdictions should modify systems as necessary to accommodate local needs and evolving technologies.
State and local TB-control programs should have the capability to monitor trends in TB disease and LTBI in populations at high risk and to detect new patterns of disease and possible outbreaks.
Populations at high risk should be identified and targeted for active surveillance and prevention, including targeted testing and treatment of LTBI (4).
Timely and accurate reporting of suspected and confirmed TB cases is essential for public health planning and assessment at all levels.
Analyses of these data should be performed at least annually to determine morbidity, demographic characteristics, and trends so that opportunities for targeted screening for disease or infection can be identified.
Regular reviews of clinical data (e.g., collaborative formal case presentations and cohort analyses of treatment outcomes; completeness, timeliness and effectiveness of contact investigations; and treatment of LTBI) may be used as indicators of program performance.
Data should be collected and maintained in a secure, computerized data system that contains up-to-date clinical information on persons with suspected and confirmed cases and on other persons at high risk.
Each case should be reviewed at least once monthly by the case manager and by field or outreach staff to identify problems that require attention.
The TB-case registry should ensure that laboratory data, including data on sputum culture conversion and drug susceptibility testing of clinical isolates, are promptly reported, if applicable, to the health-care provider so any needed modifications in management can be made.
This requires a communications protocol for case managers, providers, and the public health and private laboratory systems that will transmit information in a timely fashion.
Aggregate program data should be available to the health-care community and to community groups and organizations with specific interests in public health to support education and advocacy and to facilitate their collaboration in the planning process.
Clinical and diagnostic services for patients with TB and their contacts.
TB-control programs should ensure that patients with suspected or confirmed TB have ready access to diagnostic and treatment services that meet national standards (3,5).
These services are often provided by state- or city-supported TB specialty clinics and staffed by health department personnel or by contracted service providers; however, persons may seek medical care for TB infection or disease in the private medical sector.
Regardless of where a person receives medical care, the primary responsibility for ensuring the quality and completeness of all TB-related services rests with the jurisdictional health agency, and health departments should develop and maintain close working relations with local laboratories, pharmacies, and health-care providers to ensure that standards of care, including those for reporting, are met.
Clinical services provided by the health department, contracted vendors, or private clinicians should be competent, accessible, and acceptable to members of the community served by the jurisdiction.
Hours of clinic operation should be convenient, and waiting intervals between referral and appointments should be kept to a minimum.
Persons with symptoms of TB should be accommodated immediately (i.e., on a walk-in basis).
Staff, including providers, should reflect the cultural and ethnic composition of the community to the extent that this is possible, and competent clinical interpreter services should be available to those patients who do not speak English.
All clinical services, including diagnostic evaluation, medications, clinical monitoring, and transportation, should be available without consideration of the patient's ability to pay and without placing undue stress on the patient that might impair completion of treatment.
Clinical facilities should provide diagnostic, monitoring, and screening tests, including radiology services.
Health-care providers, including nurses, clinicians, pharmacists, laboratory staff members, and public health officials, should be educated about the use and interpretation of diagnostic tests for TB infection and disease.
Clinics and providers should monitor patients receiving TB medications at least monthly for drug toxicity and for treatment response, according to prevailing standards of care (5).
Counseling and voluntary testing for HIV infection should be offered to all persons with suspected and proven TB and to certain persons with LTBI, with referral for HIV treatment services when necessary.
A case manager, usually a health department employee, should be assigned to each patient suspected or proven to have TB to ensure that adequate education is provided about TB and its management, standard therapy is administered continuously, and identified contacts are evaluated for infection and disease.
A treatment plan for persons with TB should be developed immediately on report of the case.
This plan should be reviewed periodically by the case manager and the treating clinician and modified as necessary as new data become available (219).
The treatment plan should include details about the medical regimen used, how and where treatment is to be administered, monitoring of adherence, drug toxicity, and clinical and bacteriologic responses.
Social and behavioral factors that might interfere with successful completion of treatment also should be addressed.
Patient-specific strategies for promoting adherence to treatment should take into account each patient's clinical and social circumstances and needs (5).
Such strategies might include the provision of incentives or enablers (e.g., monetary payment, public transportation passes, food, housing, child care, or transportation to the clinic for visits).
Whether the patient's care is managed by a public health clinic or in the private sector, the initial strategy used should emphasize direct observation of medication ingestion by an HCW.
Patient input into this process (e.g., regarding medications to be taken or the location of DOT) is often useful as it can minimize the burden of treatment and provide the patient a degree of control over an anticipated lengthy course of therapy.
Expert medical consultation in TB should be available to the health-care community, especially for patients who have drug-resistant disease or medical diagnoses that might affect the course or the outcome of treatment.
Consultants may be employees of the health department or clinicians with expertise who are under contract with the health department.
Inpatient care should be available to all persons with suspected or proven TB, regardless of the person's ability to pay.
Hospitalized patients with suspected proven TB should have access to expert medical and nursing care, essential diagnostic services, medications, and clinical monitoring to ensure that diagnostic and treatment standards are met.
Inpatient facilities that manage persons who are at risk for TB should have infection-control policies and procedures in place to minimize the risk for nosocomial spread of infection.
Facilities should report persons with suspected or confirmed TB to the health department and arrange for discharge planning as required by statute.
Public health agencies should have legal authority and adequate facilities to ensure that patients with infectious TB are isolated from the community until they are no longer infectious.
This authority should include the ability to enforce legal confinement of patients who are unwilling or unable to adhere to medical advice (218,220).
This authority also should apply to nonadherent patients who no longer are infectious but who are at risk for becoming infectious again or becoming drug resistant.
TB-control programs should serve as sources of information and expert consultation to the health-care community regarding airborne infection and appropriate infection-control practice.
A TB program's presence raises overall provider awareness of TB and facilitates timely diagnosis, reporting, and treatment.
Collaboration with local health-care facilities to design and assist in periodic staff education and screening is often a health department function.
Expertise in airborne infections by TB-control personnel may be shared with biologic terrorism programs to assist in the design and implementation of local protocols.
Contact investigation, including education and evaluation of contacts of persons with infectious TB, is a key component of the public health mandate for TB control.
Often the primary responsibility of the case manager, contact investigation should proceed as quickly and as thoroughly as indicated by the characteristics of the specific case and by those of the exposed contact (e.g., young children or immunocompromised persons).
This statement includes recommendations on organizing and conducting contact investigations.
TB-control programs that are prepared to implement enhanced TB-control strategies should initiate or facilitate implementation by other medical providers of programs for targeted testing and treatment of persons with LTBI on the basis of local epidemiologic data that identify populations at high risk.
A public health approach to this activity is presented in this statement (see Essential Components of TB Control in the United States).
Liaison with communities at high risk is critical to the success of TB control in any jurisdiction.
TB-control programs should develop strong lines of communication with local community groups and organizations and their health-care providers to understand local priorities and beliefs about TB.
Trusted community members can facilitate the design and implementation of strategies to improve TB diagnosis and prevention.
Community-based clinical services that use local providers who are educated in TB treatment and prevention and who have a connection with the TB-control program can improve community acceptance of prevention and treatment of TB (221).
Training and education.
TB-control programs should provide education and training in the clinical and public health aspects of TB to all program staff.
Staff members should receive appropriate education at regular intervals on the basis of their particular responsibilities in the program and should demonstrate proficiency in those areas when tested.
Public health TB programs also should educate health-care providers (both public and private), community members, public health officials, and policy makers on the basis of local epidemiology and needs.
To ensure the availability of a competent workforce for TB that understands and meets the needs of its community, state TB programs should use resources from CDC-funded national TB centers, NIH-supported TB curriculum centers, NTCA, and other national and local agencies to create and implement education activities in coordination with schools of medicine, nursing, pharmacy, dentistry, and public health; community-based organizations and their constituents; local health-care providers; and health-care institutions (222).
A Strategic Plan for Public Health Work Force Development (223) and a Strategic Plan for Tuberculosis Training and Education have been developed.
Information management.
Information-management systems are key factors in medical safety and quality improvement (224,225) and should be prioritized by all TB-control programs.
Information technology can improve care of patients with TB through standardized collection of data; tracking of test results and details of treatment, including administration of DOT; and prediction of interactions among medications.
Information technology can also facilitate analysis and rapid distribution of epidemiologic data and the management of individualized treatment plans (5) and support ongoing program performance analyses.
Barriers to successful implementation of information technology include costs and resistance to change.
Monitoring and evaluation.
The systematic monitoring and analysis of program activities is a critical factor in enhancing program performance.
Evaluation techniques provide TB programs with an evidence-based approach to assess and improve their TB-control strategies by understanding what causes good or bad program performance.
Evaluation can also be used for program advocacy, assessing staffing needs, training and capacity building, directing limited resources to the most productive activities, accounting for available resources, generating additional resources, and recognizing achievement (226).
Each public health agency should develop its own priorities for program evaluation on the basis of the nature and dimensions of the TB problem in its jurisdiction and the way that services are organized.
In general, the first priority for evaluation efforts should be to focus on those activities and outcomes that relate most directly to the key strategies of TB control: detecting patients with infectious TB and administering a complete course of treatment; finding contacts and other persons at high risk with LTBI and treating them; and interrupting transmission of M.
tuberculosis in high-risk settings (Box 4).
Targets for program performance have been established by CDC (227) to assist public health agencies in treating TB patients, protecting their contacts, and improving the quality of case reporting for national surveillance (Table 4).
These national objectives for program performance provide a starting point for state and local TB-control programs to use for program evaluation, but each TB-control program should establish methods to evaluate its performance.
TB case management has typically been evaluated by reviewing individual charts and case conferences.
Cohort analyses should be a cornerstone of evaluation by all TB-control programs.
A guide to cohort analysis and other evaluation tools has been published (228).
National objectives have been set for completing treatment for LTBI among contacts of infectious cases of TB (Table 4).
Other program areas that should be monitored through formal evaluation methods include timeliness and completeness of reporting of TB cases and suspected cases, frequency of use of a recommended treatment regimen for patients with TB and LTBI, and quality of the program's databases for surveillance and case management.
To respond to the need for improved and standardized program evaluation activities, CDC and six state TB-control programs have established an Evaluation Working Group whose goal is to improve the capacity of TB-control programs to routinely conduct self-evaluations and use the findings to improve and enhance their programs.
The group is developing indicators for program performance and an inventory of evaluation tools, including data collection instruments, data analysis methods, and evaluation training materials.
During the next 2 years, a draft set of these materials will be tested in three TB-control programs for utility, feasibility, and accuracy.
Ultimately, this package of evaluation materials and resources will be made available to all TB-control programs.
Public Health Workforce No single model exists for staffing public health TB-control programs.
Approaches to TB control should be flexible and adaptable to local needs and circumstances.
Two components of the public health workforce, public health nurses and community outreach workers, merit specific attention.
Public health nurses.
Public health nurses are registered nurses with a Bachelor of Science degree who are employed or whose services are contracted for by health departments.
Certain states require certification for additional competencies before being hired as a public health nurse.
Public health nurses traditionally have played a prominent role in TB control in the United States.
Their training, including that in nonmedical aspects of disease, has provided nurses with the special skills needed to manage or coordinate the medical and the social-behavioral concerns associated with the prevention and treatment of TB (229).
Their training includes 1) designing contact and source-case investigations; 2) educating patients, contacts, and families; 3) identifying ineffective drug therapy regimens and drug toxicities; 4) recognizing patient behaviors that might lead to poor adherence; and 5) developing strategies to encourage completion of therapy.
As health departments adapt to changing health-care environments, the role of public health nurses working to control TB also is evolving to accommodate the varied mechanisms by which services are delivered.
Standards of practice for TB nursing are being updated by the National Tuberculosis Nurse Consultant Coalition, a section of NTCA, to guide jurisdictions in creating and maintaining a specialized nursing resource for TB control and prevention.
Community outreach workers.
Community outreach workers are staff members who provide services, such as DOT, to patients outside of the clinic.
They may also be classified as disease investigation specialists or community health educators.
Because TB has become concentrated in specific populations (e.g., foreign-born and homeless persons) in the United States, outreach workers have assumed a key role in TB control.
Often members of the communities they serve, outreach workers connect the health-care system with populations at high risk, ensuring that the principles and processes of TB control are communicated to and understood by those populations.
Outreach workers' functions include facilitating treatment for patients and contacts; providing DOT; educating patients, their families, workplace personnel, and communities; and participating in contact investigations.
In each case, outreach workers form a bridge between patients and health-care providers to achieve common understandings and acceptance of plans for diagnoses and treatment.
Clinicians with specialized expertise, including nurse-case managers, should supervise outreach workers.
Clinicians Clinicians in medical practice in the nonpublic health sector play a vital role in TB control throughout the United States.
Hospital- or clinic-based medical practitioners, including those working in emergency departments (EDs), are usually the first source of medical care for persons with TB (230--232); they also may provide ongoing management for TB patients (48).
The role of medical practitioners in TB control will increase as TB morbidity in the United States decreases and jurisdictions reduce or even eliminate public health clinical services for TB.
Medical practitioners are often not sufficiently knowledgeable about TB (233), and clinicians in private practice frequently do not follow recommended guidelines and make errors in prescribing anti-TB therapy (231,234,235).
The failure of public health and private practitioners to interact effectively is a weak link in global TB control (236).
Successful models exist for acknowledging and facilitating the work of private medical practitioners in the complex process of diagnosing and treating persons with TB.
For example, for each reported TB case in New Mexico, a collaborative case-management strategy is used that includes treating clinicians and pharmacists from the private sector in addition to public health case managers (48).
Another model of effective private-public partnerships was employed in NYC during the 1985--1992 TB resurgence, with health department case management and DOT for patients under private care (13).
As TB elimination efforts continue, the role of medical practitioners will further expand because they provide access to populations that have been targeted for testing and treatment of LTBI.
Greater participation by the nonpublic health sector in preventive intervention has been advocated (2,51), and clinical standards have been published to guide medical practitioners in managing patients with TB disease and LTBI (8).
Roles and Responsibilities of Clinicians Private medical practitioners should --- understand prevalent medical conditions, including those with public health implications, of populations within their practice; --- understand applicable state laws and regulations for reporting diseases and the need to report cases; --- understand the range of responsibilities, statutory and otherwise, that arise when TB is suspected in a patient under medical evaluation, including 1) the need for prompt establishment of diagnosis; 2) use of consultants and hospitalization if indicated; 3) reporting the suspected case to the jurisdictional public health agency and cooperating with subsequent public health activities; and 4) developing, in partnership with the public health agency, a treatment plan that optimizes the likelihood that the patient will complete the recommended course of therapy; --- incorporate current recommendations for diagnosis (3), standard treatment of TB (5), and targeted testing and treatment of LTBI (4); and --- be able to place and read tuberculin skin tests, rule out suspected TB disease (by clinical examination, history, and chest radiograph), and treat and monitor treatment for LTBI.
Providers of medical care for children and adolescents should also --- use a questionnaire to screen all new patients for risk factors for LTBI and give those with risk factors a tuberculin skin test to be interpreted by a trained health-care provider (237), and --- place and interpret tuberculin skin tests of family members of children with LTBI when this service is not otherwise accessible.
Clinicians who administer treatment that can suppress the immune system should administer a questionnaire about risk factors for TB.
If risk factors are present, a tuberculin skin test should be administered and the result obtained before or commensurate with starting immunosuppressive therapy.
Civil Surgeons Civil surgeons are licensed physicians who are certified by the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service (CIS) to conduct a required health screening examination, including testing for LTBI and active TB disease, on foreign-born persons living in the United States who apply for permanent residency.
In 2002, approximately 679,000 foreign-born persons applied for permanent residency and were screened by civil surgeons, compared with 245,000 such persons in 1995 (238).
CDC has responsibility for providing guidance on screening and treatment but has no regulatory role in monitoring the quality or outcomes of these examinations.
Because of their access to foreign-born persons at high risk, civil surgeons are a critical component of TB control.
U.S.-based immigration screening can identify foreign-born persons with LTBI for whom treatment is indicated (239).
Although civil surgeons receive immigration-focused training, little information is available on the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of civil surgeons.
A recent survey indicated that among 491 physicians serving as civil surgeons in California, Massachusetts, and New York, the majority were graduates of U.S.
medical schools; 75% were primary care practitioners; and 47% were board certified in their specialty.
Among 5,739 foreign-born applicants examined by these civil surgeons, 1,449 (25%) received nonstandard screening (240).
As a result of these findings, efforts are under way to develop guidance documents and training materials for physicians who screen immigrants for TB infection and disease.
Roles and Responsibilities of Civil Surgeons Civil surgeons should --- understand current guidelines for the diagnosis (3) and treatment of TB (5) and LTBI (4), --- establish a working relationship with the jurisdictional health agency and report suspected and confirmed cases of TB, and --- develop a referral mechanism for evaluation for TB disease and LTBI of persons seeking adjustment of immigration status.
Community Health Centers Community health centers typically provide primary health-care services to populations that encounter barriers to receiving those services at other sites in the health-care system, such as low-income working persons and their families, immigrants and refugees, uninsured persons, homeless persons, the frail elderly, and poor women and children.
Patients at high risk for TB often receive primary and emergency health care in community health centers (51).
For example, community health centers in certain inner-city areas might serve primarily a clientele of homeless persons, whereas centers in neighborhoods in which certain racial and ethnic populations are concentrated might become predominant health-care providers for immigrants and refugees.
Newly arriving refugee families are frequently directed to community health centers to receive federally supported health-screening services, which might include targeted testing and treatment for LTBI.
Persons with symptoms of TB might go first for evaluation and care to a community health center.
For these reasons, community health centers are a critical part of efforts to control and prevent TB.
Roles and Responsibilities of Community Health Centers Community health centers should --- provide their medical staff with the skills and knowledge needed to conduct a TB risk assessment of their clients, diagnose and initiate treatment for TB disease, and diagnose and treat LTBI (241); --- develop close working relationships with consultant physicians, hospitals, and clinical laboratories and with the public health agency that serves their jurisdiction; --- arrange for reporting patients with suspected TB, ensuring availability of diagnostic services (e.g., sputum smears for AFB, cultures for M.
tuberculosis, and chest radiographs), and providing consultation and referral of patients for diagnosis, treatment, and hospitalization, as indicated); --- understand federal and state programs that support screening, diagnostic, and treatment services for patients at high risk and make prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of TB a high priority; --- work with public health agencies to educate patients about the personal and public health implications of TB and LTBI and motivate them to accept prevention services; and --- establish recommended infection-control practices (10) to protect patients and staff.
Hospitals Hospitals provide multiple services that are instrumental to the diagnosis, treatment, and control of TB.
Hospitals with active outpatient and EDs often serve as sites of acute and primary medical care for homeless persons, inner-city residents, immigrants and refugees, and other persons at high risk for TB.
Also, hospital staff members often provide medical consultation services for the diagnosis and management of TB by public health and community clinicians.
Laboratory services provided by hospitals for community-based medical care providers might include key diagnostic tests for TB.
TB cases often are detected during hospitalization at acute-care hospitals (230,242).
In a prospective cohort study at 10 sites in the United States, 678 (45%) of 1,493 patients reported with TB received their diagnosis during hospitalization (230).
Hospital-based health professionals evaluate patients for TB, establish the diagnosis, and initiate treatment regimens and reporting of cases to public health departments.
Instances of delayed recognition, diagnosis, and treatment for TB among hospitalized patients subsequently found to have TB have been reported (24,178), indicating a need for more effective training and education of hospital medical staff members.
Because 25%--45% of patients with TB receive their diagnostic evaluation while in a hospital (230,242), hospitals have an opportunity to provide patient-based teaching on TB for their own staff members and for health professionals from the community served by the hospital.
Venues such as staff conferences and medical grand rounds, conducted regularly by hospitals, can be sources of training and education on clinical, laboratory, and public health concerns that arise during evaluation and initial medical management of hospitalized patients with TB.
Hospitals should protect their patients, staff, and visitors from exposure to M.
tuberculosis.
The importance of effective TB infection control was emphasized during the 1985--1992 TB resurgence in the United States, when hospitals were identified as sites of transmission of multidrug-resistant TB (243).
Implementation of effective infection-control guidelines has been effective in reducing transmission of TB in hospitals (56,244,245).
Roles and Responsibilities of Hospitals Hospitals that deliver inpatient care for TB should develop policies that ensure that patients suspected to have contagious forms of the disease are isolated and that effective infection-control measures are implemented.
Such hospitals should provide recommended TB-related diagnostic testing and should ensure that patients receive a standard treatment regimen (245).
Hospitals should promptly report any patient with a suspected or confirmed diagnosis of TB to the jurisdictional public health agency.
A written policy for discharging patients with TB, developed in collaboration with the public health agency, should be prepared.
Certain states have regulations stipulating that the jurisdictional public health agency should approve discharge from hospital of patients with TB.
Patients with TB should be discharged on a standard anti-TB regimen, and advance arrangements should be made to ensure follow-up after discharge.
Close coordination between the hospital and the jurisdictional public health agency can enhance patient follow-up after discharge (5,56).
Hospitals should develop a written policy and plan for prevention of the nosocomial transmission of TB.
Recommendations have been published to guide the development of an infection-control plan (10) and are reviewed in this statement.
New guidelines for prevention of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in health-care settings will be published by CDC in 2005.
Hospitals should take responsibility for the training and ongoing medical education of their medical and house staff in the prevailing diseases of the populations to which they provide care.
When appropriate, education should include the local epidemiologic profile of TB, the best current diagnostic tests and recommended treatment regimens, appropriate infection-control measures, and case management responsibilities (i.e., reporting, protection of contacts, importance of treatment until cure, and the concept of public health case management).
Academic Institutions Academic institutions (including schools of medicine, public health, and nursing) have an opportunity to contribute to TB control in the United States and worldwide.
Students from diverse disciplines, including the clinical and laboratory sciences, nursing, epidemiology, and health services should be introduced to applicable concepts of public health in general and, because TB is a major cause of preventable illness and death in developing countries (44), to TB in particular.
During the resurgence of TB in the United States during 1985--1992, expertise in TB was limited.
Federal funding for programs (e.g., the NIH National Heart Lung Blood Institute's Tuberculosis Academic Award program) helped provide funding to incorporate teaching of TB more fully into medical school curricula.
Researchers at academic institutions are critical to efforts to improve the prevention, management, and control of TB because of their efforts to develop new tools, including new diagnostic tests, new drugs, better means of identifying and treating LTBI, and basic research to create a vaccine for TB (180,246,247).
As with hospitals, academic institutions can provide benefits to other participants in TB control.
Conferences, grand rounds, and other presentations are a source of continuing education for private medical practitioners and other community-based HCWs.
As well-trained specialists, researchers at academic institutions can provide clinical, radiographic, and epidemiologic consultation to medical practitioners and public health agencies.
A majority of academic institutions manage university-based hospitals, which often serve populations at high risk.
University hospitals can become models for TB risk assessment of patients, inpatient care, and infection-control practice, and they can serve as tertiary care sites for an entire community or region.
Partnerships between academic institutions and public health agencies are mutually beneficial (248).
In certain cases, health departments and public health TB clinics are staffed or managed by faculty physicians from academic institutions.
This partnership facilitates use of these clinics for graduate medical training for physicians in subspecialty areas (e.g., pulmonary and infectious diseases), enhances training for clinic staff, and provides opportunities for clinical and operational research.
Roles and Responsibilities of Academic Institutions Academic institutions (including schools of medicine, public health, and nursing) should incorporate TB education into their curricula.
Training and teaching programs should include the routine applications of TB risk assessment.
Students and trainees in all medical disciplines should understand and appreciate the importance and roles of the primary and specialty medical care providers and public health, including the necessary collaboration between academic institutions and local, state, and federal public health agencies.
Academic institutions should serve as repositories of expertise in the treatment and management of TB and as a resource for public health and community-based clinicians and other HCWs.
Academic institutions should partner with public health agencies to improve TB control.
Partnerships are mutually beneficial.
For academic institutions, partnerships provide additional sites for education and training, opportunities for clinical research, and, for patients with TB, a systematic transition from hospital to outpatient care, including DOT.
Public health agencies gain exposure to students and trainees, a ready source of referral for consultation and management of complex medical problems, and research opportunities.
Academic institutions should provide leadership in conducting research in diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines for TB.
Medical Professional Organizations Because they are involved with medical practice, research, education, advocacy, and public health, medical professional organizations are critical partners in TB control efforts.
Greater participation of the nonpublic health medical sector is needed to maintain clinical expertise in the diagnosis and management of TB in an era of declining incidence.
Organizations whose memberships include primary care medical practitioners can make significant contributions to the control, prevention, and elimination of TB by including TB in their training and education agendas.
ATS and IDSA both support TB control efforts in the United States.
With a membership of approximately 14,000 health professionals, including clinicians trained in pulmonary diseases, ATS conducts research, education, patient care, and advocacy to prevent respiratory diseases worldwide.
IDSA promotes and recognizes excellence in patient care, education, research, public health, and the prevention of infectious diseases.
In recent years, IDSA has joined ATS in focusing education and advocacy activities on TB through its annual meetings, publications, and sponsorship of this series of statements.
Other medical professional organizations also can support TB control efforts.
Medical professional organizations can 1) provide TB education to their members through meetings, symposia, statements, and web sites; 2) serve as venues for better communication between the private medical and public health sectors; 3) promote the TB research agenda locally and nationally; and 4) advocate for resources for strong TB control globally and in the United States.
Roles and Responsibilities of Medical Professional Organizations Medical professional organizations should train and educate their members and other health professionals (e.g., private medical practitioners, nurses, epidemiologists, laboratory specialists, or program administrators) regarding the clinical and public health aspects of the risk assessment, diagnosis, treatment, control, and prevention of TB.
Training and education can be provided in traditional venues, such as scientific meetings and symposiums, and electronically through web sites.
As continuing medical and nursing education is now a prerequisite to licensure, medical professional organizations are a convenient education resource for the private medical community.
Medical professional organizations should provide professional leadership on clinical practice and control of TB by participating in the development or endorsement of guidelines, influencing professional school curricula, and establishing and supporting fellowship training programs as applicable.
Medical professional organizations should provide advocacy for adequate funding for TB control and research through public education campaigns.
Medical professional organizations should advocate the importance of greater U.S.
involvement in global control of TB by linking U.S.
health professionals with those from other parts of the world at meetings and symposia, including information on global TB in statements and education materials, providing their members with opportunities to serve as technical consultants, and participating in special projects to support or improve TB control in other regions of the world.
Community-Based Organizations Involvement of community groups in TB control has long been encouraged (17).
The critical importance of such involvement is underscored by the trend in the United States for TB to be limited to certain populations at high risk (e.g., contacts of persons with active cases, persons born outside the United States, homeless persons, incarcerated persons, and persons with HIV infection).
Programs for education and targeted testing and treatment of LTBI should be organized for these populations.
The public health sector frequently experiences difficulty in gaining access to persons in populations of high risk (51).
Such persons might be socially marginalized, as in the case of new refugees, or they might be suspicious of persons representing government agencies, as in the case of undocumented aliens.
Furthermore, the target population's own view of its health-care priorities, often best articulated by community-based organizations that represent them, should be considered in the design of public health interventions (249).
Social, political, religious, and health-related organizations that have arisen from grassroots efforts to meet community needs often can facilitate access to public health programs (221).
Community-based organizations can be particularly effective in providing information and education on TB to their constituencies.
As part of the communities they serve, such organizations are often highly regarded in their communities, and their messages might be accepted more positively than those delivered by the jurisdictional health department.
Roles and Responsibilities of Community-Based Organizations Community-based organizations should be aware of their constituents' health risks.
Organizations providing services to populations at risk for TB should partner with the jurisdictional public health TB program and medical care providers from the community to facilitate access to diagnostic, treatment, and prevention services for the target population.
As resources allow, organizations should provide assistance for treatment services to their constituency (e.g., DOT, incentives and enablers, and other outreach services).
When serving a population at risk for TB, community-based organizations should become involved in advocacy initiatives, such as state and local TB advisory committees and coalitions.
Community organizations serving populations at high risk should work with public health agencies and educational institutions to develop education materials that are tailored culturally and linguistically to their populations.
Correctional Facilities Correctional facilities are common sites of TB transmission and propagation (250,251).
Incidence of TB and of LTBI are substantially higher in prisons and jails than in the general population (252,253).
TB is believed to be the leading cause of death for prisoners worldwide (254).
Targeted testing for and treatment of LTBI in correctional facilities have been demonstrated to have a substantial public health impact (124).
Testing and treatment for LTBI is carried out more easily in prisons (255) because the length of stay is generally sufficient to permit completion of a course of treatment.
Jails have proved convenient sites for targeted testing, but subsequent treatment of LTBI has proved challenging (256).
Innovative methods for assuring completion of treatment for LTBI in jail detainees have been proposed (257).
Because of their communal living arrangements, correctional facilities, like health-care facilities, have the responsibility to limit the transmission of TB within the institution and to protect their inhabitants and staff from exposure.
This is a particular challenge in jails because of the short lengths of stay for the majority of detainees.
Even in prison systems, abrupt and unexpected transfers of detainees among institutions might occur, with little consideration for health issues.
Prisons and jails frequently house HIV-infected persons in separate facilities to ensure adequate health care.
However, recent publications describing outbreaks of TB in such settings have emphasized the hazard of this strategy (35,126).
Roles and Responsibilities of Correctional Facilities Correctional facilities should work with the jurisdictional public health agency to develop and maintain an accurate epidemiologic profile of the risk for TB in the inmate population.
On the basis of the local epidemiology of TB, correctional facilities should develop written policies to establish effective programs to screen for active TB, respond promptly when cases occur within the facility, provide targeted testing and treatment programs for inhabitants and detainees with LTBI, and provide ongoing, competency-based education of all staff members.
Correctional facilities should establish ongoing working relations with public health agencies, hospitals, and other community partners for policy development, consultation and referral.
Correctional facilities should develop firm linkages for referral of persons under treatment for TB disease and LTBI.
Correctional facilities, following requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other regulatory agencies, should develop infection-control programs to protect inhabitants, detainees, staff, and visitors from exposure to TB (258).
Correctional facilities should continually evaluate the effectiveness of the institutional TB-control program to eliminate transmission within the facility.
Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Because of their essential role in developing new diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are partners in TB control.
Although development of new tools for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB has been deemed essential to the effort to combat the disease globally and to continue to make progress toward its elimination in the United States and other developed countries (1,2,45,259), progress in these fields has been slow.
Slow progress in this field has been attributed to private industry's perception that such products are not needed in developed countries and do not offer profit opportunities in resource-poor countries (246,260).
However, new public-private partnerships are emerging to facilitate the development of essential new tools (261), including three partnerships established with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation: the Global Alliance for Tuberculosis Drug Development  the Aeras Global Tuberculosis Vaccine Foundation  and the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics 
These organizations have provided venues to identify and address obstacles to developing new tools for TB among private industry, public and academic researchers, and philanthropic organizations.
These organizations also receive support from the private sector.
The pharmaceutical industry has also contributed to the global TB control effort by assisting in making drugs for TB, including second-line drugs for patients with multidrug-resistant TB, more affordable (262,263).
Such actions can enable pharmaceutical companies to become leaders in efforts to improve TB control and prevention.
Roles and Responsibilities of the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries should --- understand the dimensions of the global TB epidemic and realize their key role in developing the necessary tools for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB; --- respond to the current surge of interest in TB globally by reexamining the costs of new product development and by considering potential new public and private funding and the markets for such products in developing countries; --- contribute their perspectives and become involved in coalitions such as NCET, the Global Partnership to Stop Tuberculosis, the Global Alliance for Tuberculosis Drug Development, and the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics; and --- work with other stakeholders to ensure access of essential products to those whose lives are at stake.
Essential Components of TB Control in the United States Case Detection and Management Case detection and case management include the range of activities that begin when a diagnosis of TB is first suspected and end with the completion of a course of treatment for the illness.
TB case management describes the activities undertaken by the jurisdictional public health agency and its partners to ensure successful completion of TB treatment and cure of the patient.
The rationale and methodology of TB case management have been described previously (5).
Organizational aspects of case management from the viewpoint of the jurisdictional public health agency are also discussed in this statement.
Case detection includes the processes that lead to the presentation, evaluation, receipt of diagnosis, and reporting of persons with active TB.
Case detection involves patients with active TB who seek medical care for symptoms associated with TB, their access to health care, their health-care providers, the consultants and clinical laboratories used by those health-care providers, and the responsible public health agency.
Although steadily increasing treatment completion rates (14) indicate that progress has been made in the management of TB patients, TB case detection is still problematic.
Delays in diagnosis and report of TB cases continue to be common.
The majority of pulmonary TB cases continue to be diagnosed at an advanced stage.
Earlier diagnosis would result in less individual morbidity and death, greater success in treatment, less transmission to contacts, and fewer outbreaks of TB.
Improvement in the detection of TB cases is essential to progress toward elimination of TB in the United States (Box 1).
The first step in improving TB case detection is to remove barriers in access to medical services that are often encountered by persons in high-risk categories.
Such barriers might be patient-related, such as cultural stigmas associated with the diagnosis of TB, which might lead foreign-born persons to deny or hide symptoms (264,265), or fear of being reported to immigration authorities if medical care is accessed (19).
Foreign-born persons, particularly recently arrived immigrants, refugees, and other persons of low SES might not have access to primary health services because they do not have health insurance or they are not familiar with the U.S.
medical care system (20,118,266).
Removing patient-related barriers to health care is particularly difficult.
Improved patient education about TB is needed (18).
Continuing immigration from countries at high risk, often including persons with strong cultural views about TB, underscores the need for patient education.
As with other interventions to enhance TB control and prevention, local public health action should be based on the local pattern of disease.
In developing education messages and outreach strategies, public health authorities should work with organizations that serve communities at high risk to gain community input (203).
This statement provides recommendations on working with community-based organizations, key informants, and academic institutions to gain ethnographic information, learn about the health beliefs and values of populations at high risk within the community, and develop targeted interventions that will be most effective.
The majority of TB cases are detected during the medical evaluation of symptomatic illnesses (19,267).
Persons experiencing symptoms ultimately attributable to TB usually seek care not at a public health TB clinic but rather from other medical practitioners and health-care settings.
In 18 California counties with the highest TB morbidity of persons during 1996--1997, initial points of entry into the health-care system for persons who received a diagnosis of TB were hospital inpatient evaluations (45%), private outpatient offices or clinic evaluations (32%), TB clinic evaluations (12%), and other sites (11%), including a non-TB clinic in a health department and correctional facilities (California Tuberculosis Controllers Association, unpublished data, 2003).
A similar pattern was observed in Washington state.
In Seattle and its suburban areas in 1997, primary care practitioners or clinics reported 48% of TB cases during evaluations of outpatients with symptoms and 32% during hospital evaluations; only 2% of cases were diagnosed during a public health TB clinic evaluation for a symptomatic illness (Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, unpublished data, 1998).
These data indicate that the professionals in the primary health-care sector, including hospital and ED clinicians, should be trained to recognize patients with symptoms consistent with TB.
Dramatic reductions in TB were recorded in NYC (13) and Baltimore (195) in association with extensive education campaigns for health-care providers in the community.
These studies indicate the need to maintain clinical expertise for the diagnosis and treatment of TB (24,41).
Because pulmonary disease among adults is most frequently associated with the spread of TB, the following discussion and recommendations regarding TB case detection are limited to considerations of pulmonary TB among adults.
A classic set of historic features, signs, symptoms, and radiographic findings occurring among adults should raise a suspicion of pulmonary TB and prompt a diagnostic investigation (3,189,267--271).
Historic features include exposure to TB, a positive test result for M.
tuberculosis infection, and the presence of risk factors such as immigration from a high-prevalence area, HIV infection, homelessness, or previous incarceration.
Signs and symptoms typical of TB include prolonged coughing with production of sputum that might be bloody, fever, night sweats, and weight loss.
On a chest radiograph, the classical findings of TB in immunocompetent patients are upper-lobe infiltrates, frequently with evidence of contraction fibrosis and cavitation (270).
However, these features are not specific for TB, and, for every person in whom pulmonary TB is diagnosed, an estimated 10--100 persons are suspected on the basis of clinical criteria and must be evaluated (272,273).
The clinical presentation of TB varies considerably as a result of the extent of disease and the host response.
In addition, variation in clinical symptoms and signs of TB is associated with underlying illnesses (e.g., HIV infection, chronic renal failure, alcoholism, drug abuse, and diabetes mellitus).
The signs of TB are also associated with race and ethnicity and are attributed to unknown factors (3,267,270).
The chest radiograph among persons with advanced HIV infection and pulmonary TB, for example, might have lower-lobe and lobar infiltrates, hilar adenopathy, or interstitial infiltrates (274).
In the drive toward TB elimination in the United States, effective TB case detection is essential, and medical practitioners should recognize patients in their practice who are at increased risk for TB and be aware of the possibility of diagnosing TB if they observe compatible symptoms.
Guidelines have been provided for the initial steps of TB case detection in five clinical scenarios encountered by providers of primary health care, including those serving in medical EDs (Table 5).
In these settings, evidence exists to support proceeding with a diagnostic evaluation for pulmonary TB.
The subsequent management of suspected cases in these scenarios depends on the judgment of the medical practitioner, in consultation with specialists in internal medicine, pulmonary diseases, or infectious diseases if necessary (5).
These recommendations do not cover the spectrum of clinical presentations of pulmonary TB in adults and are not meant to substitute for sound clinical judgment.
Cases of pulmonary TB also are detected through directed public health activities designed to detect TB disease among certain persons who have not sought medical care.
Compared with persons whose cases were detected passively by medical practitioners among patients who have sought medical care, persons whose cases are detected actively are usually in a less advanced stage of pulmonary disease, as manifested by the absence of symptoms and by negative sputum AFB smear results.
Although no supporting literature exists, cases detected in that stage of disease might be less advanced and easier to cure.
Active efforts to detect cases of TB among persons who have not sought medical care are routinely made during evaluation of contacts of patients with pulmonary TB (30,31,276) and of other persons with newly diagnosed infection with M.
tuberculosis (4).
Screening for TB also is performed during evaluation of immigrants and refugees with Class B1 or Class B2 TB notification status (277--279), during evaluations of persons involved in TB outbreaks (34,35,136,172,280,281), and occasionally in working with populations with a known high incidence of TB (167,185).
Screening for TB disease is indicated when the risk for TB in the population is high and when the consequences of an undiagnosed case of TB are severe (282), such as in jails and prisons (253,283).
Screening for TB disease (i.e., active case finding) might contribute substantially to overall TB case detection.
A population-based study from Los Angeles indicated that 30% of reported TB cases during the period of study were detected through screening activities (267).
During 1998--2001, of 356 TB cases reported by the Seattle-King County TB Program, 40 (11%) were detected through active case detection in contact investigation and evaluations of immigrants and refugees with Class B1 and B2 TB notification status.
The clinical settings in which TB has been effectively detected among persons without symptoms, the methodology of testing, and outcomes of the screening process have been described (Table 6).
On the basis of its very high yield of detecting TB cases, domestic follow-up evaluation of immigrants and refugees with Class B1 and B2 TB notification status should be given highest priority by all TB-control programs.
The yield of detecting TB cases during screening at homeless shelters increased sharply in an outbreak setting (Table 6).
Although prevalence data from individual studies are not available, investigations undertaken to control TB outbreaks that involved diverse settings and groups of immunocompetent and immunocompromised persons have consistently been productive in detecting TB cases and high rates of LTBI among exposed persons (34,35,136,173,280,281).
Outbreak investigations should be counted among the settings in which screening for active TB is recommended.
Contact Investigation and Outbreak Control Contact investigation is an essential function of TB control in the United States (Box 4) (1,17).
The investigation of a case of TB results in identifying approximately 10 contacts (284).
Among close contacts, approximately 30% have LTBI, and 1%--3% have progressed to TB disease (30,284).
Without intervention, approximately 5% of contacts with newly acquired LTBI progress to TB disease within 2 years of the exposure (285).
Examination of contacts is therefore one of the most important activities for identifying persons with disease and those with LTBI who have a high risk for acquiring TB disease.
Transmission of M.
tuberculosis has occurred in health-care facilities (286,287), bars (134,288), doctors' offices (289), airplanes (290), crack houses (291), respite facilities that provide care for HIV-infected persons (136), drug rehabilitation methadone centers (36), navy ships (292), homeless shelters (120), schools (173), church choirs (140), and renal transplant units (141).
In the United States, state and local public health agencies perform 90% of contact investigations as part of the public health mandate for TB control (Box 5) (2).
Public health TB-control programs are responsible for ensuring that contact investigations are conducted effectively and that all exposed contacts are identified, provided with access to adequate care, and followed to completion of therapy.
For health agencies to fully discharge this responsibility, adequate funding and political commitment are required.
Health agencies use a general epidemiologic framework for contact investigations (299).
However, this approach alone might have limited effectiveness because of factors such as initial diagnostic delays and failure to ensure completion of therapy for LTBI.
Consequently, programs have recognized the necessity of widening traditional contact investigation sites to include nonhousehold locations (e.g., homeless shelters, correctional facilities, nursing homes, and hospices that serve HIV-infected persons) and households.
Genotyping studies have documented that traditional contact investigation methods have failed to identify contacts or detect transmission of M.
tuberculosis (28,33,34,151,172).
As a result, IOM (2) and ACET (1) have called for the development and implementation of enhanced techniques for contact investigation.
The primary goal of a contact investigation is to identify persons who were exposed to infectious M.
tuberculosis and ensure that they are tested for M.
tuberculosis infection, screened for TB disease, are followed up, and complete a standard course of treatment, if indicated.
Secondary goals are to stop transmission of M.
tuberculosis by identifying undetected patients with infectious TB and to determine whether a TB outbreak has occurred.
In that case, an expanded outbreak investigation should ensue.
Steps of a Contact Investigation State and local public health agencies, often represented by TB-control programs, are responsible for initiating and conducting contact investigations and evaluating their outcomes to ensure their effectiveness.
A contact investigation has 14 steps, as follows: Setting priorities.
A contact investigation is considered once a suspected or confirmed case of TB comes to the attention of the jurisdictional TB-control program.
At that time, a decision should be made about the priority of that investigation among other TB-control activities.
Not all cases of TB require a contact investigation, and certain investigations will have greater priority than others.
Priorities should be decided on the basis of the characteristics of the source-case, of the environment of the place(s) of exposure, and of the contacts.
The three most important categories of information used to establish priorities for cases for contact investigations are 1) the site of disease, 2) the results of sputum AFB smears and NAA testing, and 3) the findings on the chest radiograph.
In general, patients with pulmonary TB, positive sputum AFB smear results, and cavitation noted on a chest radiograph are more infectious and therefore have a higher priority for contact investigation.
The use of an NAA test is helpful in rapidly differentiating between pulmonary disease caused by M.
tuberculosis and nontuberculous mycobacteria, thus avoiding unnecessary contact investigations.
Persons with pulmonary TB who have negative sputum AFB smear results tend to be less infectious, and their contacts should be investigated, but with lower priority.
Pleural TB is a manifestation of primary TB and often occurs among persons who have been recently infected.
In addition, persons with pleural TB can have positive sputum AFB smear results.
Defining the beginning and end of the period of infectiousness.
Before a contact investigation can be started, the period of infectiousness of the index case should be determined.
This period sets the limits for the investigation, allows for setting priorities for contacts within the designated timeframe, and determines the scheduling for follow-up tests.
Exactly when a patient becomes infectious is unknown; the usual assumption is that the patient becomes infectious approximately 3 months before diagnosis; however, it might be longer, depending on the history of signs and symptoms, particularly cough and the extent of disease.
The end of the period is defined as the time when contact with the index case is broken or when all of the criteria for determining when during therapy a patient with pulmonary TB has become noninfectious (Box 3) are met.
Patients with multidrug-resistant TB who are on inadequate therapy or who have persistently positive sputum AFB smear or culture results might remain infectious for a prolonged period of time.
Those patients, if not in effective isolation, should be reassessed for new contacts as long as they remain infectious.
Medical record review.
For potential transmission risk and infectiousness of a case to be assessed, all currently available information about the reported case or suspect is obtained through case medical record reviews, conversations with the health-care provider or other reporting source, and laboratory report reviews.
This information can be disclosed by covered entities for public health activities as provided by the Privacy Rule of HIPAA (217).
Case interview and reinterview.
The patient interview may be conducted in the hospital, at the patient's home, or wherever convenient and conducive to establishing trust and rapport.
The ability to conduct an effective interview might determine the success or failure of the contact investigation.
All persons with whom the patient has been in close contact and the locations that the patient commonly frequents should be identified.
Good interviewing skills can elicit vital information that otherwise might not be forthcoming.
For different reasons (e.g., stigmatization, embarrassment, or involvement in illegal activities), patients might be reluctant to identify contacts or places they frequent.
Developing an ability to interview patients effectively so as to elicit contacts requires training and periodic review by supervisors, and only trained personnel should interview patients.
A patient should be interviewed as soon as possible after notification and reinterviewed 1--2 weeks later to clarify data or obtain missing data.
When possible, the second interview should be conducted at the patient's primary residence.
Also, all interviews should be conducted in the patient's primary language and with sensitivity to the patient's culture.
Field investigation.
Field investigations enable investigators to 1) interview or reinterview identified contacts and obtain an adequate medical history to evaluate previous exposure to TB, existence of prior M.
tuberculosis infection, existence of disease and treatment, risk factors for acquiring TB, and symptoms; 2) obtain locator information; 3) apply a tuberculin skin test to identified contacts (the role of QFT-G in the assessment of contacts has not been determined); 4) observe contacts for any signs or symptoms suggestive of TB; 5) schedule subsequent medical evaluations and collect sputum samples from any contact who is symptomatic; 6) identify sources of health care and make referrals; 7) identify additional contacts who might also need follow-up; 8) educate contacts about the purpose of the investigation and the basics of TB pathogenesis and transmission; 9) observe the contact's environment for possible transmission factors (e.g., crowding and poor ventilation); 10) assess contacts' psychosocial needs and other factors that might influence compliance with medical recommendations; and 11) reinforce confidentiality.
Visits to the exposure site(s) should be conducted as soon as possible.
Contacts at higher risk for disease progression and more severe disease (e.g., young children and HIV-infected persons) require the most rapid follow-up.
Transmission sites might involve social networks not customarily considered in traditional contact investigations.
For example, in certain TB cases reported separately in different communities, participation in a church choir was identified as a common factor (140).
The contact investigation failed to identify the source-patient's choir contacts, resulting in secondary cases of TB.
In an outbreak associated with a floating card game, the outbreak was propagated because a network of persons engaged in illegal activities was not identified (172).
These examples demonstrate the importance of congregate activities beyond work and socially defined high-risk contacts.
Clinical evaluation of contacts.
All close contacts of patients with pulmonary or laryngeal TB and a positive culture result for M.
tuberculosis or a positive sputum AFB smear result should receive a tuberculin skin test unless they have documentation of a previously positive test.
Highest priority for tuberculin skin testing and follow-up evaluation should be given to 1) contacts identified as being at highest risk for recent infection on the basis of their history of exposure to the case-patient and risk for transmission and 2) those at high risk for progression from M.
tuberculosis infection to TB disease (e.g., infants, young children, HIV-infected persons, and other persons whose medical conditions predispose them to progress from infection to disease).
Regardless of where the tuberculin skin test is performed (e.g., field visit, TB clinic, or referral site), arrangements should be made to ensure that the skin test is read within 48--72 hours.
tuberculosis infection.
Those persons should receive a chest radiograph and medical evaluation for TB disease.
The following contacts should have a chest radiograph regardless of skin test result: 1) persons with symptoms of TB; 2) persons who are immunosuppressed or who have other risk factors for progression from M.
The presence of HIV coinfection might affect decisions about subsequent management of contacts (e.g., prescribing prophylactic treatment and completing treatment for LTBI regardless of results of a tuberculin skin test).
An HIV-infected contact also should be effectively counseled about the substantial risk for disease progression and the need to accept and adhere to a course of treatment for LTBI.
Although contacts of HIV-infected persons with TB have substantial risk for HIV infection themselves, contacts of TB cases without HIV infection have low rates of HIV infection (301), suggesting that offering HIV testing to all contacts might not be cost-effective.
The local epidemiology of TB, HIV infection, and TB/HIV coinfection also may be used as a basis for the decision.
If resources are limited, and if local data indicate that HIV infection contributes only minimally to the TB problem (i.e., the HIV seroprevalence of contacts is likely to approach 0.1% of the general U.S.
population), then the highest priority for voluntary HIV counseling and testing should be assigned to contacts of HIV-infected persons with TB and those who have identified risk factors for HIV (303).
Contacts who have a documented prior positive tuberculin skin test and who are not known or likely to be immunocompromised generally do not require further evaluation unless they have symptoms suggestive of TB disease.
However, candidates for treatment of LTBI on the basis of other criteria (4) should first receive a medical evaluation, including a chest radiograph, to exclude TB.
Every 3 months, all contacts with negative skin test results who remain in close contact with an infectious patient should receive a repeat tuberculin skin test and, if symptoms of TB disease are present, a chest radiograph.
If the radiograph is normal, the contact should be evaluated for treatment of LTBI; if it is abnormal, the patient should be evaluated for TB disease or other cause of the abnormality.
TB-control programs should find and evaluate all persons who have had sufficient contact with an infectious TB patient to become infected.
Contacts at high risk (e.g., infants, young children, and HIV-infected persons) should be identified and evaluated rapidly to prevent the onset of serious, potentially life-threatening complications (e.g., TB meningitis).
In certain jurisdictions, legal measures have been put in place to ensure that contact evaluation and follow-up occurs (304).
The use of existing communicable disease laws should be considered for contacts that fail to comply with the examination requirements.
All contacts should be assessed routinely for obstacles to their participation in the evaluation process.
Any structural barrier that impedes the ability of the patient to access services (e.g., inconvenient clinic hours or location, work or family obligations, and lack of transportation) should be addressed.
Treatment of contacts with LTBI.
Contacts with LTBI should be treated unless compelling contraindications exist.
For completion of therapy to be ensured, contacts should be placed on DOT whenever possible.
Contacts on self-administered therapy should be monitored monthly by personal interview for adverse effects and adherence until treatment is completed.
Primary prophylaxis of high-risk contacts.
Because tuberculin skin test results might take 8--10 weeks to become positive after infection with M.
tuberculosis, a contact's initial skin test result might be negative even if the person is infected.
A second test should be placed 8--12 weeks after the contact's last exposure to the infectious patient, so the possibility of LTBI for those persons can be better evaluated.
If the second skin test is negative but the contact is immunocompromised (e.g., with HIV infection), a course of therapy for LTBI should be completed.
Expanding the contact investigation.
Defining the extent of the contact investigation is the responsibility of the investigating TB-control program.
Once testing of high-priority contacts is completed, the extent of transmission of M.
tuberculosis should be evaluated.
Consideration can then be given to expanding the investigation to include contacts at lower risk for infection.
In general, the contact investigation need be expanded only if excessive transmission is detected, on the basis of the following criteria: 1) secondary cases of TB are identified in contacts; 2) documented skin test conversions exist; and 3) comparison of skin test positivity among contacts with available data on the baseline prevalence of skin test positivity in the population indicates the probability of transmission.
When a contact investigation is expanded, resources should continue to be directed to persons identified as being at greatest risk.
Data management and use in decision-making.
Maintenance of data is crucial to all aspects of the contact investigation.
Protocols should be developed to maximize the efficiency of the process, given available resources.
Data should be collected for cases and contacts by using standardized forms (paper or electronic) with standard definitions and formats, according to national guidelines (305).
Data elements should mirror those collected by the states and CDC, but individual jurisdictions may elect to expand the data elements.
Evaluation.
Contact investigation steps should be adequately documented, so the process can be monitored and evaluated.
National performance measures for TB control stipulate that programs should complete treatment of LTBI among 61% of contacts of infectious TB cases (Table 4).
Additional parameters should also be tracked and evaluated.
Programs should determine whether the indications given previously for conducting a contact investigation are applied to all reported cases.
In addition, for each TB case that is investigated, the number of contacts identified should be recorded.
For each contact identified, outcomes to monitor include 1) whether the contact evaluation took place (including placing and reading the first and second tuberculin skin tests, if applicable) and was completed and 2) whether the recommended protective interventions (including screening for TB disease, treatment for LTBI, and prophylaxis within the window period) were offered, accepted, started, and completed.
Results of the evaluation should be aggregated and recorded for stipulated intervals of time, as follows: 1) among identified contacts, the number and percentage that were referred for evaluation; 2) among those referred, the number and percentage that completed evaluation; 3) among those evaluated, the number and percentage eligible for treatment of LTBI; and 4) among those eligible, the number and percentage that started and completed treatment.
Surveillance of individual contacts is not conducted routinely in the United States.
However, CDC collects aggregate data on the outcomes of contact investigations from state and local TB control programs through the Aggregate Report for Program Evaluation.
Routine collection and review of these data can provide the basis for evaluation of contact investigations for TB control programs.
Education and training for contact investigations.
The education needs for all aspects of the investigation process (including medical abstraction, patient interviewing, cultural competency, maintaining patient confidentiality, and how to perform tuberculin skin testing) should be continuously assessed.
All involved staff should receive ongoing training.
CDC-funded regional training centers offer training courses in contact investigation and interviewing skills.
Confidentiality.
Maintaining confidentiality is a critical component of the contact investigation process.
Guidelines for release of confidential information related to conducting contact investigations should be developed.
An example of appropriate release of confidential medical information is the release of an index case patient's drug susceptibility test results to a clinician caring for a contact with LTBI or one who has progressed to active TB.
Contact investigations among special populations.
Contact investigations often are conducted among special populations or locations (e.g., homeless shelters, correctional facilities, HIV residential facilities, schools, worksites, health-care facilities, active drug users, and living along the U.S.--Mexico border).
Guidelines offering specific recommendations for contact investigations under these circumstances have been published (305).
Outbreak Investigations Failure to recognize an increase in the occurrence of TB (162) or to expand a contact investigation when needed can result in continued transmission of TB.
Missed epidemiologic links among patients with TB can have severe consequences as evidenced in an outbreak associated with a floating card game in the rural south (172) and an outbreak in Kansas among exotic dancers and their close contacts that occurred during a 7-year period (38).
When TB occurs with high incidence, clusters of cases that have epidemiologic links likely occur constantly but tend to blend into the generally high morbidity (306).
In a low-incidence setting, however, clusters of linked TB cases can be identified more readily.
Three criteria have been established to determine that a TB outbreak is occurring (162): 1) an increase has occurred above the expected number of TB cases; 2) transmission is continuing despite adequate control efforts by the TB-control program; and 3) contact investigations associated with the increased cases require additional outside help.
TB outbreaks have occurred in low-incidence areas in which expertise and experience in dealing with such outbreaks might be lacking.
Such outbreaks have occurred among different populations and settings, including a young foreign-born child in North Dakota (25); exotic dancers and their contacts in Kansas (38), homeless persons in Syracuse, New York (120); factory workers in Maine (188); and limited, seemingly unrelated clusters of cases that were the cause over time of perpetuating transmission in Alabama (307).
For an increase in the expected number of TB cases (the first criterion of an outbreak) to be identified, the local epidemiology of TB should be understood.
Detection of a TB outbreak in an area in which prevalence is low might depend on a combination of factors, including recognition of sentinel events, routine genotype cluster analysis of surveillance data, and analysis of M.
tuberculosis drug-resistance and genotyping patterns.
When an outbreak is identified, short-term investigation activities should follow the same principles as those for the epidemiologic part of the contact investigation (i.e., defining the infectious period, settings, risk groups, mode of transmission, contact identification, and follow-up).
However, long-term activities require continued active surveillance, M.
tuberculosis genotyping, additional contact investigations and related follow-up for additional cases, and continuing education of providers, staff, and patients.
Consequently, a plan for long-term support should exist from the outset of the investigation.
A written protocol should be developed.
At a minimum, the protocol should outline the outbreak response plan, including indications for initiating the plan, notification procedures, composition of the response team, sources of staffing, plan for follow-up and treatment of contacts, indications for requesting CDC assistance, and a process for evaluation of the outbreak response.
The outbreak response plan should also include information on how to work strategically with the media during the public health emergency.
CDC offers training packages to assist public HCWs in media communications, including emergency and crisis communication.
This training emphasizes prevent planning, event response activities, and post-event follow-up.
Information on public health communication programs is available at 
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI An estimated 9.5--14.7 million persons in the United States have LTBI (39).
Continued progress toward eliminating TB in the United States and reducing TB among foreign-born persons will be impossible without devising effective strategies to meet this challenge.
Guidelines on targeted testing and treatment of LTBI have been published (4) and revised (308).
Those guidelines include recommendations for diagnosing LTBI and treating infected persons, limiting the possibility of treatment-associated hepatotoxicity, and identifying persons and populations to target for testing.
A new diagnostic test for LTBI, QFT-G, has been approved by FDA, and guidelines for its use will be published by CDC.
This section outlines a recommended approach to planning and implementing programs for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI to create an effective public health tool for communitywide prevention of TB.
Targeted testing and treatment of persons with LTBI is not a new concept for the prevention of TB in the United States (309).
The effectiveness of treating LTBI among populations at high risk has been established in clinical trials (285), but this intervention has not been proven to have an impact on the incidence of TB in the United States.
Theoretically, the epidemiologic impact would be considerable if cases of TB in a population were largely the result of progression of LTBI and if all persons at high risk with latent infection could be identified and treated successfully.
Practically, those circumstances rarely exist.
In the United States, the effectiveness of targeted testing and treatment of LTBI as a public health measure has been limited by concern for the side effects of treatment (notably hepatotoxocity) (310), poor acceptance of the intervention among health professionals (311), and poor adherence among patients to the lengthy course of treatment (45,312).
Two approaches exist to increasing targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
One is to promote clinic-based testing of persons who are under a clinician's care for a medical condition (e.g., HIV infection or diabetes mellitus) that also confers a risk for acquiring TB.
This approach, which depends on a person's risk profile for TB and not on the local epidemiology of the disease, requires education of health-care providers and depends ultimately on their initiative.
Although difficulties exist in quantifying and evaluating its effectiveness, this approach could conceivably become a useful tool to reduce the incidence of TB among foreign-born and other persons at high risk because they can be accessed conveniently where they receive primary health-care services.
The other approach is to establish specific programs that target a subpopulation of persons who have a high prevalence of LTBI or who are at high risk for acquiring TB disease if they have LTBI, or both.
This approach presumes that the jurisdictional TB-control agency has identified the pockets of high TB risk within its jurisdiction through epidemiologic analysis and profiling (313--316).
Those high-risk pockets might consist of foreign-born, homeless, or HIV-infected persons, or they might be geographic regions (e.g., a neighborhood within a city or town) or specific sites (e.g., a homeless shelter or an HIV-housing facility).
The epidemiologic profile should include an assessment of the risk for TB in the population or at the site, the ease of access to the population or site, and the likelihood of acceptance of and adherence to targeted testing and treatment.
For this assessment to be facilitated, populations at high risk may be separated into three tiers (Box 6).
Assignment of groups to these three tiers is based on six criteria: 1) incidence of TB; 2) prevalence of LTBI; 3) risk for acquiring TB disease if the person is infected with M.
tuberculosis; 4) likelihood of accepting treatment for LTBI and adhering to it; 5) ease of access to the population; and 6) in a congregate setting, the consequence of transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
Tier 1 is made up of well-defined populations at high risk that can also be conveniently accessed and followed, either in locations such as clinics or community health centers, prisons, or other congregate living sites or through mandatory registration.
Persons in this tier often have a high prevalence of TB and LTBI (immigrants and refugees with Class B TB notification status), an increased risk for TB disease if infected with M.
tuberculosis (persons with HIV infection), or both (certain homeless and detained populations).
The consequences of the spread of TB in congregate settings increase the necessity of preventive action.
Location-based, high-risk communities in Tier 1 are, for the most part, readily identifiable and easily accessible; often have their own resources; and generally include the probability of access for a long enough period to permit completion of treatment for LTBI.
These populations should be the first priority for targeted testing programs.
Persons enrolled in substance-abuse treatment centers may be considered transitional between Tier 1 and Tier 2, depending on local epidemiologic and demographic factors.
Substance abusers might have a high prevalence of LTBI.
Injection drug users also might have an increased risk for acquiring TB if they are infected with M.
tuberculosis and at increased risk for HIV infection (317).
Access and factors related to acceptance and completion of therapy also might vary by location.
Typically, substance abuse treatment centers that include long-term inpatient treatment or regularly scheduled appointments (e.g., methadone treatment centers) are the best choices for intervention because ease of ongoing access allows sufficient time for completion of therapy.
Voluntary HIV counseling and testing should be offered routinely as part of any targeted testing program among this population.
Populations in Tier 2 also include identifiable and accessible populations made up of persons at high risk, but the distinguishing characteristic is that obtaining satisfactory rates of completion of treatment for LTBI might be difficult because of dispersal of the population throughout a larger community or a brief duration of residency in congregate settings.
For example, in Atlanta, Georgia, after local epidemiology of TB was analyzed, community sites for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI of residents of high-risk inner-city areas were identified (184).
Sites of access included outpatient areas of the public hospital, the city jail, clinics serving homeless persons, and neighborhoods frequented by substance abusers.
Although 65% of the targeted population that had a tuberculin skin test placed returned to have the skin test read, only 20% of those with an indication for treatment of LTBI completed a course of therapy; this represented 1% of persons who underwent targeted testing.
Tier 3 consists of persons born in countries with a high incidence of TB or U.S.-born persons in racial/ethnic minority populations with high prevalence of LTBI who do not necessarily have an increased risk for progressing to TB disease.
Eventually, the control of TB among foreign-born persons and progress toward elimination of TB in the United States depends on achieving greater success in preventing TB among populations at high risk by widespread targeted testing and treatment of LTBI in the public and private medical sectors.
However, establishing successful targeted testing and treatment programs for foreign-born persons who are not found in Tier 1 or Tier 2 settings is challenging.
Obstacles include the limitations of the tuberculin skin test to differentiate between reactions attributable to BCG or infection with M.
tuberculosis, the prevalent belief among a substantial number of foreign-born persons that BCG vaccination is the cause of a positive test for M.
tuberculosis infection and is also protective against TB disease, language and cultural barriers, barriers in access to medical care, and difficulties in providing outreach and education.
Typical Tier 3 populations are new refugee and immigrant groups that are not yet assimilated into U.S.
Such populations might be ignorant of their TB risk, usually lack ready access to health-care services, and might have strong cultural understandings about TB that are at variance with those that guide TB-control activities in the United States.
TB-prevention activities in this kind of community are highly cost-intensive (221).
Engaging such communities is a challenging task.
Community-based TB prevention for Tier 3 populations requires a partnership between the jurisdictional health department and the affected community.
The community should gain an understanding of the TB problem as it relates to them and should participate in the design of the intervention.
Community education is essential for this approach to succeed.
The target population should be involved in the design and implementation phases of the intervention, interventions should be developed within the cultural context of the targeted population, and intermediate goals or benchmarks should show the population that program activities are achieving success.
For example, in Los Angeles, California, the public health TB program contracted with community-based organizations to screen and provide treatment for LTBI to persons at risk in Latino and Asian neighborhoods and at schools teaching English as a second language (249).
In Cambridge, Massachusetts, a coalition of Haitian community groups identified TB education as an issue for their community; strategies to achieve this goal included development of a videotape written and produced for viewing in Haitian barbershops and beauty salons in the community, a lottery, and measures for evaluation in terms of knowledge and future access to care (S.
Etkind, Massachusetts Department of Health, personal communication, 2002).
For communities in Tier 3, TB is only one (and often not the most important) of multiple medical and public health needs.
A broad approach should be adopted that includes TB prevention with other activities to improve health status.
Certain Tier 3 populations have achieved sufficient self-identity and development to establish access to health care through a community health center, individual medical providers, or clinics.
Those communities that have an already established route of access to health care have an infrastructure in place to establish programs for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
Obstacles to overcome often include lack of medications and chest radiographs, the need for a system to track patients who do not return for monthly appointments, and the capacity to evaluate the program.
Programs for population-based targeted testing and treatment for LTBI often have been conducted by public health agencies through TB-control programs.
However, recent studies have also described the establishment of such programs in nonpublic health venues.
Promising results, in terms of access to persons at high risk and completion of treatment of LTBI, have been achieved from nontraditional sites, including syringe exchanges (318), jails (256), neighborhood health clinics (319), homeless shelters (320), and schools (321,322).
This trend indicates a widening interest in this means of preventing TB and is possibly influenced by the emergence of community-oriented primary care (241,323), which places primacy on interventions for specific patients that help prevent disease and preserve the health of the entire population from which these patients are drawn.
As programs move from Tier 1 to Tier 2 and Tier 3 populations, the complexity of the effort and the cost of the program will increase.
Also, because persons in Tier 3 populations generally have a lower risk for progression from LTBI to TB disease, the effectiveness and impact of a program will be less than efforts directed to Tier 1 and Tier 2 populations.
Whatever population is selected or strategy is employed for the targeted testing project, programs should systematically evaluate the activity to ensure the efficient use of resources.
Process, outcome, and impact indicators should be selected and routinely monitored by the program.
For purposes of monitoring and evaluation, activities associated with targeted testing and treatment for M.
tuberculosis infection can be divided into three phases: the testing itself, the medical evaluation of persons with positive test results, and the treatment of those persons with LTBI.
Performance indicators should be selected for each phase.
For the testing phase, indicators include the number of persons at high risk identified and the number and proportion of those that were actually tested.
Among those tested, the number and proportion that had a positive result for M.
tuberculosis infection should be tracked.
Useful indicators for the medical evaluation phase include the proportion of persons with a positive test result who completed a medical evaluation and the number and proportion that were determined to have TB disease.
Indicators for the treatment phase include the proportion of eligible persons starting treatment for LTBI and the number and proportion that completed treatment.
Reasons for failure to complete treatment (e.g., adverse drug effects, loss of interest, and loss to follow-up) should be monitored.
Costs should be measured for each phase of the project.
The cost per person with LTBI completing treatment provides a measure of the relative efficiency of the program.
Finally, the impact of the program can be estimated by estimating the number of cases of TB prevented, which is dependent on the number of persons completing treatment and the estimated risk for progressing to TB disease.
Surveillance of persons with LTBI does not routinely occur in the United States.
However, CDC has recently developed a national surveillance system to record serious adverse events (i.e., hospitalization or death) associated with treatment of LTBI.
Surveillance of these events will provide data to evaluate the safety of treatment regimens recommended in current guidelines (4,324).
Control of TB Among Populations at Risk This section contains recommendations for measures to control and prevent TB in five populations (children, foreign-born persons, HIV-infected persons, homeless persons, and detainees and prisoners in correctional facilities).
Each of these populations occupies an important niche in the epidemiology of TB in the United States.
Individual members of each population have been demonstrated, on the basis of their membership in the population, to be at higher risk for exposure to M.
tuberculosis or for progression from exposure to disease, or both.
Furthermore, nationwide surveillance and surveys (27,118--120,127,136,139,150,198,295,315,325,326 ) indicate that the epidemiology of TB in these populations is similar from community to community, which suggests that the recommended control measures are subject to generalization and can be applied more or less uniformly throughout the United States.
Children, foreign-born persons, HIV-infected persons, homeless persons, and detainees and prisoners should not be assumed to be the only populations at high risk for TB, nor are homeless shelters and detention facilities the only settings in need of enhanced TB-control strategies.
Local surveillance and surveys frequently have identified populations and settings of high TB risk and transmission that required the formulation of specific control measures (122,137,152,313,315,316,327,328).
This is the primary reason why state and local surveillance should be conducted to develop a clear understanding of the epidemiology of TB at the jurisdictional level.
Most important, the concept of identifying and targeting populations and settings at high risk should be viewed as a dynamic rather than as a static process.
Such populations emerge and recede in importance at the local, state, and national levels.
For example, foreign-born persons received little attention in the 1992 edition of this statement (6).
A population whose risk for TB is now being recognized and delineated is U.S.-born non-Hispanic blacks, who account for approximately 25% of TB morbidity in the United States and who have TB rates approximately eight times those of whites (329,330) (Table 2).
CDC and collaborating public health agencies in Chicago, Illinois and the states of Georgia and South Carolina are exploring new strategies to address this problem (331).
Control of TB Among Children and Adolescents The occurrence of TB among infants and young children indicates recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis and often the presence in the community of an unidentified adult with infectious TB.
Thus, a case of TB in a child is a sentinel health event that signals a public health breakdown (197).
Also, certain features of TB among children mandate special considerations in case detection and case management, contact investigations, and targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
For example, if LTBI results from exposure to TB in infancy and early childhood, a substantial risk exists for rapid progression to TB disease, including the development of potentially lethal forms of TB (198,294,325).
The recommendations in this statement for control of TB among children and adolescents should receive high priority in all state and community TB-control plans.
Basis for Recommendations for TB Control Among Children and Adolescents Case detection and primary prevention strategy: contact investigation of adults with pulmonary TB.
The majority of infants and children who acquire TB disease do so within 3--12 months of contracting M.
tuberculosis infection.
The most important step to detect and prevent TB among children is the timely identification and effective treatment of adults with active TB.
The cornerstone of TB prevention among children is high-quality contact investigations of suspected cases of pulmonary TB in adults, because 20%--40% of pediatric cases of TB could have been prevented if contact investigation had been more timely and thorough (198,293,325).
Contact investigation of adult pulmonary TB cases is crucial to the detection, control, and prevention of pediatric TB and its complications (332,333).
The yield of detection of TB and LTBI is high, with an average of 50% of childhood household contacts having LTBI or TB disease (31,60).
Also, children with LTBI or TB disease identified through contact investigation are more likely to receive DOT at the same time as the source-case, which increases adherence to therapy.
A tuberculin skin test might take 2--3 months after infection to become positive in an infant or toddler.
However, the incubation period for severe TB, including meningitis and disseminated disease, might be only 4--6 weeks.
Case management.
The record for adherence to treatment for TB is no better for children than it is for adults (333).
Children with TB might live in socially disorganized or disadvantaged homes and receive care from multiple adults.
A chaotic environment can lead to a poor understanding of TB and its treatment and decreased adherence.
DOT is effective in TB treatment for children and adolescents.
However, almost 10% of children receiving DOT experience gaps in treatment that require extensions of therapy (326).
Intensive-case management, including use of incentives and enablers, is a crucial element of a TB-treatment plan for children.
Contact investigation of cases of TB among children and adolescents.
Contact investigations for children with suspected TB are generally conducted to identify the adult source-case.
Identifying a source-case serves to establish the diagnosis of TB in the majority of children and, if the source-case is culture-positive for M.
tuberculosis, to determine the likely drug susceptibility pattern of the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis in the child.
Even with optimal medical evaluation, M.
While microbiologic testing determines the diagnosis of TB for the majority of adults, positive culture results often are lacking for children.
In the majority of cases, the diagnosis of pediatric TB is established by the triad of 1) a positive tuberculin skin test result, 2) either an abnormal chest radiograph or physical examination or both, and 3) discovery of a link to a known or suspected case of contagious pulmonary TB.
Because culture yields from children with TB are low, determining the drug susceptibility pattern from the source-case isolate often is the only way to determine optimal treatment for children with either LTBI or TB disease (334,335).
Because TB among infants and young children usually occurs within weeks to months of contracting infection with M.
tuberculosis, having a child with disease is a marker of recent transmission from someone in the child's environment.
The source-case, often a parent or other caregiver (336--338), might not have been identified as having TB by the time the child becomes ill.
Consequently, parents and other adults who are close contacts of children hospitalized with TB should be evaluated themselves for TB disease as soon as possible to serve as a case-detection tool and to prevent nosocomial transmission of M.
tuberculosis (339).
A chest radiograph should be performed on these family members to exclude pulmonary TB; certain centers have implemented this recommendation by requiring that adults who accompany a child have a chest radiograph performed and interpreted immediately while at the health-care facility (339).
Other adult family members or friends also should be required to show evidence of a normal chest radiograph, performed by the health department or other provider, before being allowed to visit the child.
Because TB in the child, not LTBI, is the reliable marker of recent infection, chest radiograph screening of accompanying adults is not necessary if the child has LTBI without TB disease.
Associate investigations (i.e., efforts to identify and evaluate household contacts of a child with LTBI to identify the infectious person responsible for the child's infection) are often performed as part of the evaluation of a child with LTBI (5,17,340--343).
The usefulness of this approach depends on the criteria for placing skin tests on children.
If testing of children at low risk is undertaken, associate investigations will be costly, have a low yield, and divert TB-control resources from more important activities.
Associate investigations of children at high risk, however, usually detect a limited number of persons with TB but do identify substantial numbers of other persons with LTBI who are candidates for treatment (341--343).
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
In the 1950s and 1960s, child-centered TB control activities were based on periodic testing of all children for LTBI (344).
However, as the number of TB cases dropped, the disease became concentrated among persons at high risk in particular subpopulations.
Consequently, the majority of U.S.
children have negligible risk for acquiring LTBI.
Among children at low risk, the majority of positive tuberculin skin test results are false positives caused by nonspecific reactivity or exposure to nontuberculous mycobacteria in the environment (344).
False-positive results lead to unnecessary health-care expenditures and anxiety for the child, family, school, and HCWs (345).
Thus, while the testing of children with an expected high prevalence of LTBI is desirable, mass testing of children with a low prevalence of LTBI is counterproductive and should not be undertaken.
The optimal approach is to perform tuberculin skin testing only on those children with specific risk factors for LTBI.
A questionnaire that assesses risk factors for TB can be used successfully in clinics and private offices to identify children at risk for LTBI (237,346--348); this approach can also be used to identify at-risk college students (349).
The screening tool is the questionnaire; only those children whose answers indicate that they are at risk for LTBI should receive a tuberculin skin test.
Use of a questionnaire can also address issues related to discrimination; all children in a setting such as a school or child-care center can be screened easily, but only those with identified risk factors for LTBI should receive a tuberculin skin test, thereby diminishing the number of false-positive results.
No single questionnaire has been validated for use in all settings and for all ages of children.
Questions pertaining to a locally identified population with a high rate of TB should be included in a questionnaire, but validation of these questions is difficult.
In certain treatment programs for LTBI among children in the United States, the completion rate associated with 6--9 months of self-supervised isoniazid therapy is only 30%--50%.
As LTBI among young children might progress rapidly to TB disease, DOT is recommended.
Children with LTBI, who are most likely to benefit from DOT because of their high risk for rapid progression of infection to disease, include contacts of persons with recently diagnosed cases of pulmonary TB, infants and young children, and children with immunologic deficiencies, especially HIV infection.
Control of TB Among Foreign-Born Persons TB among foreign-born persons is of increasing importance.
During 1992--2003, the number of TB cases decreased 64% among U.S.-born persons but increased 8% among persons born outside the United States (14,15).
In 2003, eight states (California, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Texas, and Virginia) accounted for 71% of cases among foreign-born persons.
Foreign-born persons with TB have been more likely than U.S.-born persons to harbor drug-resistant strains of M.
tuberculosis; in 2003, 10.6% of foreign-born persons with TB had TB with primary isoniazid resistance, compared with 4.6% of U.S.-born persons with TB (14).
The increase in cases of TB among foreign-born persons has been attributed to at least three factors (350).
Second, foreign-born persons are subject to cultural and linguistic barriers that might affect health-seeking behavior and access to medical care, resulting in delays in diagnosis and difficulty in understanding and completing treatment (18,19,194,325).
Third, these barriers, which have implications for the treatment, control, and prevention of TB among foreign-born persons, have not been sufficiently appreciated and addressed in TB-control program planning in the United States.
Precise information is lacking to assist in the identification of foreign-born persons who have an elevated risk for acquiring TB during residence in the United States.
Immigrants entering either Canada or the United States have a risk for TB during their early years of residence that approximates that of residents of the country of birth (115,352,353).
Over time, the risk declines and approaches that of residents of the host country.
Criteria for characterizing countries as having a high prevalence of TB have not been developed, and no consensus exists on which countries should be designated as having a high prevalence of TB.
In rank order, the 14 countries listed most frequently as country of origin of foreign-born persons with reported TB in the United States are Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam, India, China, Haiti, South Korea, Somalia, Guatemala, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Peru, El Salvador, and Honduras), and these 14 countries accounted for 76% of cases among foreign-born persons during 1999--2002 (14).
Estimated incidence rates of TB in these countries in 2002 ranged from 33/100,000 population (Mexico) to 406/100,000 population (Somalia) (354).
However, the country of origin of foreign-born persons with TB can vary substantially among localities within a state and between states and regions across the United States.
State and local TB control programs should develop their own profiles of risk for TB among foreign-born persons as part of the jurisdiction's overall epidemiologic analysis of TB and then define which immigrant and foreign-born populations in their areas should be considered as being at high risk for TB.
Data sources for TB programs to use in making this determination include 1) WHO data on the estimated incidence of TB in countries of origin (354); 2) local epidemiologic and surveillance data (151,152,313--316,355); 3) published guidelines (4,279), and other sources of data (115,116); 4) qualitative information on refugee and immigrant movement into the jurisdiction; and 5) availability of resources to establish control and prevention measures targeted toward the foreign-born population.
The principles and priorities of TB control among foreign-born persons at high risk are not different from those for control of TB among U.S.-born persons (Box 4).
However, for the reasons given previously, TB control among foreign-born persons at high risk might present challenges requiring targeted strategies specific to that population (152,356).
How Foreign-Born Persons Enter the United States Foreign-born persons enter the United States legally through different official channels (Table 7).
As a condition of entry, persons migrating as immigrants, refugees, and asylees are required to be screened for diseases of public health significance, including TB.
Persons entering in the nonimmigrant category do not require preentry screening.
Persons who enter the country without legal documentation are referred to as unauthorized aliens.
During 1992--2002, an estimated 380,000--536,000 persons entered the United States annually as immigrants, refugees, or asylees (Table 8).
In 2002, among the estimated 516,000 persons in those categories, 86.6% were from countries with high incidence of TB.
Immigrants, refugees, and asylees constitute only a fraction of foreign-born persons who enter the United States each year; the majority (20--35 million persons) enter in one of the nonimmigrant subcategories (Table 8).
The majority of entering nonimmigrants are tourists or business travelers who spend only a short time in the United States.
However, an estimated 850,000--1.9 million workers, students, and other visitors and their families might reside in the United States for multiple years (Table 8).
A nonimmigrant, refugee, or asylee residing in the United States who meets the eligibility requirements and applies for a change in visa status to that of a lawful permanent resident should undergo required health screening assessment by a civil surgeon.
During 2002, of the 679,305 persons who adjusted their immigration status under this program, 536,995 (79%) were from countries with high incidence of TB (238).
In addition, an estimated 7 million unauthorized aliens resided in the United States in January 2000, and during 1990--1999, the unauthorized alien population increased annually by approximately 350,000 persons (357).
Current Requirements for TB Screening of Immigrants U.S.
immigration law mandates screening outside the United States for applicants designated as immigrants who are applying for permanent residence status and for applicants designated as refugees or asylees (Table 7).
The purpose of mandated screening is to deny entry to persons who have either communicable diseases of public health import or physical or mental disorders associated with harmful behavior, abuse drugs or are addicted to drugs, or are likely to become wards of the state.
The current list of infectious diseases of public health significance that are grounds for exclusion include infectious TB, HIV infection, leprosy, and certain sexually transmitted diseases (358).
Worldwide, approximately 400 licensed local physicians, designated as "panel physicians," perform these medical examinations.
Panel physicians are appointed by U.S.
embassies and consulates that issue visas.
CDC is responsible for monitoring the quality of these examinations and for providing technical guidance and consultation for TB diagnosis and treatment.
The TB screening process is a program for active TB case detection designed to deny entry to persons with infectious pulmonary TB (identified by positive sputum AFB smear results).
If the chest radiograph is considered compatible with pulmonary TB, three sputum specimens are obtained and examined for AFB.
Although procedures vary from site to site, smears are usually performed by Ziehl-Neelsen staining and examined with light microscopy.
Cultures for M.
tuberculosis are not required and are not routinely performed.
A test for M.
tuberculosis infection is performed, and a chest radiograph is obtained if the test is positive or if the child is suspected to have TB.
Persons with abnormal chest radiographs suggestive of TB and with AFB-positive sputum smear results are classified as having Class A TB, which is an excludable condition for entry into the United States (358).
Persons so designated have two options: 1) to complete a course of treatment for TB, including documented negative sputum AFB smears at the end of treatment, at which point they are classified according to their chest radiograph results and may enter the United States; or 2) to receive TB treatment until sputum smear results for AFB convert from positive to negative and then apply for an immigration waiver.
health-care provider who agrees to assume responsibility for the completion of TB treatment after a person's arrival in the United States should sign the waiver.
The waiver is countersigned by a representative of the jurisdictional public health agency of the person's intended U.S.
destination.
An applicant whose chest radiograph is compatible with active TB but whose sputum AFB smear results are negative is classified as having Class B1 status and may enter the United States.
If the chest radiograph is compatible with inactive TB, no sputum specimens are required, and the applicant enters the country with Class B2 status (358).
Immigrants with a Class A waiver or with Class B1 or B2 status are identified at ports of entry to the United States by CIS on entry to the United States and reported to CDC's Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ).
DGMQ notifies state and local health departments of refugees and immigrants with TB classifications who are moving to their jurisdiction and need follow-up evaluations.
Persons with a Class A waiver are required to report to the jurisdictional public health agency for evaluation or risk deportation.
For persons with Class B1 and B2 status, however, the stipulated evaluation visits to the health agency are voluntary.
Persons Seeking Adjustment of Status After Arrival Persons seeking to adjust their immigration status after residing in the United States with nonimmigrant visa status should undergo a medical evaluation by one of the approximately 3,000 U.S.
medical practitioners designated by DGMQ as civil surgeons.
TB screening by civil surgeons is based on tuberculin skin testing; QFT-G is also approved for detecting LTBI.
If the radiograph is compatible with active TB, the person is referred to the jurisdictional public health agency for further evaluation (358).
Civil surgeons are also advised that persons with a positive tuberculin test result and no signs or symptoms of TB disease should be referred to public health agencies for evaluation for treatment of LTBI, following ATS/CDC/IDSA guidelines (4,324).
Because data on the outcomes of TB screening of persons seeking to adjust their immigration status are not aggregated or analyzed, only limited information is available.
In an evaluation of the screening practices in five U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service jurisdictions, among 5,739 applicants eligible for screening through tuberculin skin testing, 4,290 (75%) were considered to have been screened appropriately (240).
In Denver, Colorado, where health department physicians serve as civil surgeons, 7,573 persons were evaluated for adjustment of status during May 1987--December 1988 (239).
Applicants were screened with tuberculin skin testing, chest radiographs, or both.
Sixteen persons (0.7%) were sputum culture-positive for M.
tuberculosis.
Therapy with isoniazid was recommended for 1,029 applicants, of whom 716 (70%) completed 6 months of treatment.
Immigration Status of Foreign-Born Persons with TB Studies have sought to identify the initial immigration status of foreign-born persons with reported TB.
During 1992--1993 in Hawaii, 78% of TB cases occurred among immigrants, 4% among student nonimmigrants, and 4% among nonimmigrant tourists (350); in 14% of cases, the immigration status could not be determined.
During 1998--2000, a total of 59% of foreign-born persons with TB in Tarrant County, Texas, were immigrants or refugees, 24% were unauthorized immigrants, and 17% were nonimmigrant students and workers (316).
Assessment of TB Screening Requirements for Immigrants The priority for immigration screening efforts is to detect cases of pulmonary TB among persons applying for permanent residence in the United States and to prevent the most infectious persons from entering the United States.
However, requirements for screening outside the United States do not apply to the majority of foreign-born persons entering the United States because those classified as nonimmigrants and unauthorized immigrants do not undergo screening (Table 7) (277).
Furthermore, a significant proportion of immigrants with Class B1 (4%--14%) and B2 (0.4%--4%) status allowed to enter the United States with abnormal chest radiographs because of having AFB-negative sputum smears on screening outside the United States are later discovered (on the basis of follow-up evaluations by U.S.
public health agencies) to have active TB at the time of entry (350).
This finding has great importance for TB-control activities in certain U.S.
jurisdictions.
IOM, NTCA, and CDC have suggested changes in the screening procedures for immigrants, as follows: IOM has recommended that testing for M.
tuberculosis infection be added as a requirement to the medical evaluation for immigrant visa applicants from countries with high incidence of TB (2).
IOM has recommended that 1) a Class B4 TB designation be created for persons with normal chest radiographs and positive tuberculin skin tests and that 2) immigrants with B4 status be required to undergo an evaluation for TB and, when indicated, complete an approved course of treatment for LTBI before receiving a permanent residency card.
CDC has proposed enhancing training and oversight of panel physicians outside the United States and of civil surgeons in the United States to improve the quality of immigration screening (359).
CDC is also working to develop an electronic system for notifying jurisdictional public health agencies about the arrival of Class B immigrants.
NTCA has called for 1) clarification of legal and fiscal issues associated with domestic evaluation and treatment of immigrants; 2) efforts to educate immigrants with Class B1 and B2 status about their responsibilities for follow-up; and 3) operational research to address the cost effectiveness of screening additional categories of immigrants.
Consideration also should be given to broadening the scope of medical evaluations for immigrants.
Consideration is being given to adding sputum cultures to the sputum AFB smear evaluation of visa applicants who, on the basis of an abnormal chest radiograph, are suspected to have pulmonary TB or who, at least for persons with smear-positive TB cases, are from countries with known high rates of drug resistance.
TB Control at the U.S.-Mexican Border The U.S.-Mexican border presents specific challenges to TB control.
states (California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas) and six Mexican states (Baja California Norte, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas) comprise the U.S.-Mexican border, and an estimated 1 million persons cross the border daily.
In the six Mexican border states, estimated annual TB incidence is 27.1 cases/100,000 population, compared with 5.1 cases/100,000 population in the United States (359).
In 1999, Mexico was the country of origin for 23% of foreign-born persons in the United States with reported TB, and 75% of those cases were reported from the four U.S.
border states.
In 1996, those same states reported 83% of TB cases among foreign-born Hispanics (360).
The high rate of TB at the border, the substantial number of border crossings, the substantial geographic area involved, and the prevalent cultural and linguistic barriers make TB control a challenge in this region.
Recommendations to improve TB control at the U.S.-Mexican border have been published (361).
These recommendations include use of a binational case definition and development of a binational registry of TB cases, improvements in clinical care of binational TB patients and close contacts by cross-border case-management strategies, development of performance indicators for these activities, and setting research priorities (361).
Basis for Recommendations on TB Control Among Foreign-Born Persons Surveillance.
The inability to distinguish imported TB present at the time of entry of foreign-born persons into the United States from domestically occurring disease obscures the progress that certain states and cities have made in TB control.
Standardized reporting of new TB cases does not allow separating TB among foreign-born persons that is present at the time of entry from cases that arise during residence in the United States.
This is more than a semantic distinction because cases of TB that occur among short-term visitors and workers, students, and unauthorized aliens are counted as U.S.
incident cases even though a substantial number are imported (115).
Surveys using sputum cultures indicate that 4%--13% of immigrants and refugees with Class B1 status have TB disease at the time of entry (279).
TB present at the time of entry is likely to contribute to the higher incidence rates of TB noted among foreign-born persons in the first 2 years after arrival (115).
The importance of imported cases and the need to distinguish them from domestic cases has also been demonstrated in the smallpox, polio, and measles eradication efforts in North America.
Case detection.
Multiple factors common to the experience of foreign-born persons in the United States might lead to delays in the detection of TB.
Preexisting culturally derived beliefs about TB might serve as a disincentive to seek health care when symptoms of TB are experienced (18,279).
Also, foreign-born persons wishing to receive a medical evaluation might encounter financial, linguistic, or other barriers to access (19).
Once medical services are sought, foreign-born persons are likely to receive their evaluation from certain kinds of health-care providers (e.g., foreign-born physicians or those working in community health centers or hospital EDs) rather than from TB clinics conducted by public health agencies.
These challenges to optimal case detection among foreign-born persons will require 1) targeted public education for foreign-born populations at high risk to explain that TB is a treatable, curable disease; 2) better access to medical services, especially for recently arrived immigrants and refugees; and 3) maintenance of clinical expertise in the diagnosis and management of TB among medical practitioners (Box 1).
The TB-screening process for visa applicants (i.e., identification of persons with abnormal chest radiographs) has provided opportunities for active case detection in follow-up evaluations in the United States.
Data derived from programs that have sought to identify active TB cases on the basis of positive sputum cultures for M.
tuberculosis among immigrants with Class B notification status indicate that 3%--14% of the approximately 6,000 immigrants with Class B1 status who enter the United States each year and 0.4%--4.5% of the 12,000 immigrants with Class B2 status have TB at the time of entry (279).
In San Francisco, California, during July 1992--December 1993, of 182 immigrants with Class B1 status who received follow-up evaluations, 27 (14.8%) had active TB, and 134 (73.3%) had inactive TB (362).
Among 547 immigrants with Class B2 status, 24 (4.3%) had active TB, and 301 (54.5%) had inactive TB.
However, a study from Los Angeles suggested that the visa application process was more effective in identifying cases among persons recently arrived from Southeast Asia than among those from Mexico and Central America (363).
An active Class B1/B2 follow-up program can be relatively cost effective.
During October 1995--June 1996, in Santa Clara County, California, 87% of immigrants with Class B status responded to letters inviting them to receive a follow-up evaluation, resulting in a cost of $9.90 to locate one immigrant with Class B1/B2 status and $175.88 to locate one person with TB (364).
Case management.
As with case detection, cultural and linguistic differences might impede successful treatment outcomes among foreign-born persons.
Case management of persons whose primary language is not English depends on reliable and competent medical translation.
Providers and agencies that work with foreign-born patients at high risk should ensure that adequate translation and interpretation services are available.
In jurisdictions in which the majority of the cases occur among foreign-born person, providing these services can be costly.
For example, in 2000, the Tarrant County Health Department TB Program (Fort Worth, Texas), spent approximately $24,000 on professional translation services (365).
Ideally, professional services should be used for translation rather than relatives or family friends (365).
Culturally derived attitudes and beliefs about TB and its treatment can also be impediments to the management of TB among foreign-born persons.
Each culture has its own knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about TB and how it should be treated.
For example, in a study that used focus groups to evaluate attitudes regarding TB among Filipino immigrants, participants expressed a belief that TB was extremely contagious (264) and mentioned the associated social stigma and isolation.
Although all participants agreed that medical therapy was necessary, participants also trusted the effectiveness of traditional treatments.
As more of the burden of TB in the United States is borne by foreign-born persons, the need for health-care providers to understand cultural attitudes toward TB will increase.
Case management is particularly difficult at the U.S.-Mexico border where, until recently, tracking systems for persons who migrated between the two countries were not in place.
A new binational system has been established to ensure continuity of care and completion of TB treatment for patients who migrate between the United States and Mexico and to coordinate the referral of patients between the health systems of both countries.
The project is now being tested in four U.S.-Mexican jurisdictions (San Diego, California, and Tijuana, Baja California; El Paso, Texas--Las Cruces, New Mexico, and Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua; Webb and Cameron Counties, Texas, and Matamoros, Tamaulipas; and Arizona and Sonora).
If the pilot project proves successful, this binational TB patient referral and information system will likely be expanded to other parts of the United States and Mexico.
Contact investigation.
Contact investigations have a particularly high yield when conducted on foreign-born patients.
In Seattle, for example, contacts of foreign-born persons with TB were more numerous (6.0 versus 3.4 per case) and substantially more likely to be have positive tuberculin skin test results (50% versus 18%) and to be started on treatment for LTBI (40% versus 23%) than were contacts of U.S.-born persons with TB (293).
A multicenter survey from around the United States demonstrated that the tuberculin skin test was positive among 71% of foreign-born contacts compared with 32% of all close contacts (31).
Although not all foreign-born contacts identified during a contact investigation are recently infected, the majority would nevertheless be considered candidates for treatment of LTBI under current guidelines (4).
In addition, a Canadian study indicated that contact investigations were more cost effective than preimmigration screening and postarrival surveillance (276).
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
Surveys using molecular epidemiologic methods have consistently demonstrated that less clustering of M.
tuberculosis isolates occurs from foreign-born patients than from U.S.-born patients; this has been interpreted as evidence that less person-to-person spread of TB occurs among foreign-born persons in the United States and that the majority of cases of TB among foreign-born persons occur as a result of activation of a latent infection (150--152,356).
In fact, one reason for the lack of progress in reducing TB among foreign-born persons might be that insufficient attention has been given to targeted testing and treatment (152), which should be the most applicable prevention strategy for this population, in which TB disease occurs mainly by progression from LTBI.
The success of programs for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI among populations at high risk in the United States has been thwarted by poor interest in the intervention on the part of medical practitioners and poor adherence by patients (51).
Among foreign-born persons, these problems are magnified by the lack of access to care and by cultural and linguistic obstacles.
Successful models for administering targeted testing and treatment of LTBI among refugees have been published; these models are resource-intensive and require a commitment to working within the population's cultural contexts (202,221).
In addition, the use of DOT increases treatment completion rates (366).
Other opportunities to conveniently access foreign-born persons for targeted testing programs include school-based testing of foreign-born students.
The majority of persons residing as students in the United States remain long enough to receive targeted testing for LTBI and, if TB is diagnosed, to complete a course of treatment.
Screening for TB is required by 61% of colleges and universities: for all students in 26%, for all international students in 8%, and for students in specific academic programs in 47% (367).
School-based screening also has been evaluated among younger students (150,322,345).
In a cost-benefit analysis, screening all students would be expected to prevent 14.9 cases/10,000 children screened, whereas targeted testing would prevent 84.9 cases/10,000 screened and would be less costly (345).
Control of TB Among Persons with HIV Infection HIV and M.
tuberculosis interact in ways that tend to worsen both diseases among coinfected persons (368).
When a person with HIV infection is exposed to a patient with infectious TB, the risk for acquiring TB disease soon after that exposure is markedly increased (369).
In outbreaks in which the start of exposure could be determined, HIV-infected persons acquired active TB in as little as a month after exposure to a person with infectious TB (136).
HIV coinfection is also a highly potent risk factor for progression from LTBI to TB (44,46,370).
Persons with LTBI and HIV coinfection have a risk for progressing to TB disease of approximately 10%/year (317,371,372), which is 113--170 times greater than the risk for a person with LTBI who is HIV-seronegative and has no other risk factors (4,44).
On a global level, HIV infection has had a substantial effect on the epidemiology of TB.
Areas of the world most heavily affected by the global epidemic of HIV/AIDS (e.g., sub-Saharan Africa) have also sustained increases in the incidence of TB (44,46,373).
TB is the most common infectious complication and the most common cause of death among persons with HIV/AIDS in places where the incidence of both diseases is high (374).
In the United States, HIV infection has been associated with TB outbreaks in institutional settings, including health-care facilities (53), correctional facilities (37), and homeless shelters (33).
Before the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in the early 1990s, HIV infection caused a progressive decline in immune competence and death.
However, the use of HAART using combination therapy plus protease inhibitors has prolonged the survival among persons with HIV infection (375--377).
The introduction of HAART has also decreased the incidence of TB among HIV-infected persons: an 80% decrease in risk for TB has been demonstrated among HIV-infected persons receiving HAART (378).
With the declining incidence of TB in the United States since 1992, the incidence of HIV infection among persons with TB also has decreased.
This is likely attributable to increased understanding of the biologic interactions between the two pathogens, leading to more targeted TB-control efforts and to the introduction of HAART.
Another factor is improved TB infection control in health-care facilities, because HIV- infected persons were particularly affected by health-care--associated transmission of M.
tuberculosis (53).
HIV infection was a prominent cause of the 1985--1992 TB resurgence in the United States, especially the incursion of health-care--associated TB (including multidrug-resistant disease).
That fact, along with the knowledge that the global epidemics of HIV infection and TB are continuing unabated (44), dictates a high degree of respect and vigilance for the adverse consequences that HIV infection could impose on the epidemiology of TB in the United States.
Basis for Recommendations of Control of TB Among Persons with HIV Infection HIV counseling and testing.
Knowledge of the presence of HIV infection among patients with TB is useful for surveillance purposes to ensure that an optimal drug regimen is chosen for treatment (5), refer persons for HIV primary care if the case is newly detected, and guide decisions about contact investigations.
TB is frequently the first illness that brings a person who has not previously received a diagnosis of HIV infection into the health-care system.
Voluntary counseling and testing for HIV is recommended for all patients with TB (5), but this recommendation has not been fully implemented, and reporting of HIV among persons with TB is incomplete (14).
HIV counseling and testing has also been recommended for contacts of persons with TB (302).
However, recent data indicate that contacts of HIV-infected persons with TB have a high rate of HIV infection but that contacts of persons with TB without HIV infection do not (301).
HIV testing for other persons with LTBI should be limited to those who have clinical or behavioral risk factors for HIV infection.
Case detection.
HIV coinfection affects the clinical and radiographic manifestations of TB.
HIV-infected patients are more likely than persons without HIV infection to have extrapulmonary and miliary TB (379,380), and those who have pulmonary TB tend to have atypical findings (e.g., they are less likely to have apical cavities and are more likely to have lower lobe or instititial infiltrates and mediastinal or paratracheal lymphadenopathy).
Persons with HIV infection might also have pulmonary TB despite a normal chest radiograph (274,379).
HIV-infected patients are also vulnerable to other pulmonary and systemic infections such as Pneumocystis carinii and pneumococcal pneumonias and disseminated M.
avium complex disease.
Although the symptoms and signs of TB are usually different to the trained clinician from those caused by other prevalent invasive pathogens (273,381), HIV co-infection often results in delay in the diagnosis of TB as a result of altered clinical and radiographic manifestations (23).
Undetected transmission of M.
tuberculosis to HIV-infected persons can have serious sequelae (136).
A substantial outbreak of TB in a prison in South Carolina in 1999 demonstrated the widespread consequences of an unrecognized TB case in a congregate setting with a substantial number of HIV-infected persons (37).
In that outbreak, 32 TB cases and 96 tuberculin skin test conversions resulted from a single unrecognized case.
Similar outbreaks have occurred in hospitals (53,244), HIV-living facilities and day-treatment programs (136), and homeless shelters (33).
Such outbreaks underscore the importance of aggressive TB screening and treatment in settings in which HIV-infected persons congregate.
Screening for TB in those settings has been successfully conducted by using symptom checklists, tuberculin skin testing, and chest radiographs (37,118,136).
Case management.
Management of TB among persons with HIV infection is complex.
Drugs used to treat TB and those employed in combination antiretroviral therapy have overlapping toxicities and potentially dangerous drug interactions (382).
Paradoxical responses to TB therapy are more common among HIV-infected persons (383).
Use of multiple potentially toxic medications also provides further challenge to adherence with TB treatment.
Therefore, integration of management of both HIV infection and TB is critical to the success of management of both.
Comprehensive case management, including DOT, is particularly important (5).
Among HIV-infected TB patients, more favorable outcomes and survival have been associated with DOT than with self-administered therapy (384).
ATS/CDC/IDSA guidelines should be consulted for recommendations on length and mode of treatment and selection of drug regimens (5).
Finally, patients with HIV and TB bear the brunt of two conditions that are associated with clinical and social complexities that can be personally overwhelming.
Both HIV infection and TB are associated with stigmatization, and patients with these concomitant conditions often suffer from isolation and a lack of social support.
Contact investigation.
Despite controversy as to whether HIV-coinfected patients with TB are more or less infectious than HIV-seronegative patients (385,386), they are clearly capable of transmitting M.
tuberculosis; contacts of the two populations of patients have comparable rates of LTBI (369,387).
The higher risk for progressing rapidly from exposure to M.
tuberculosis to TB disease means that all of the medical and public health interventions (case detection and reporting, initiation of an effective drug regimen, and identification and evaluation of contacts) are more urgent when working to control HIV-associated TB (388).
Although offering HIV counseling and testing to all contacts of persons with infectious TB has been recommended (302), this undertaking would be resource-intensive.
Whereas prevalence of HIV infection among contacts of HIV-infected persons is high, prevalence among contacts of persons with TB without HIV infection or with undetermined status is negligible (301).
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
HIV coinfection is the most important known risk factor for persons with LTBI acquiring active TB (317,371,372).
Treatment of LTBI is effective in reducing the risk for progression to TB disease among HIV coinfected persons (372,389).
Thus, all possible efforts should be made to ensure that HIV-infected persons are tested for M.
tuberculosis infection and that those found to have latent infection receive and complete a course of treatment.
According to current guidelines (302), persons being evaluated for LTBI should also be screened for HIV infection by using self-reported clinical and behavioral risk factors.
Institutional infection control.
Infection-control measures recommended to prevent transmission of M.
tuberculosis have been effective in limiting exposure of HIV-infected persons, including patients, visitors, and staff members, to M.
tuberculosis in hospitals, extended care facilities, and correctional facilities (9,244).
Nevertheless, the risk for rapid progression from exposure to TB disease means that HIV-infected persons should continue to be advised of any potential sites of institutional exposure so an informed choice regarding employment or volunteering can be made.
Control of TB Among Homeless Persons The persistence of TB among homeless persons in the United States is a major public health problem.
The homeless population is not insubstantial; in 1995, an estimated 5 million persons (2.5% of adult U.S.
residents) either were or had recently been homeless, living in streets or shelters, or marginally housed (e.g., living on public support in residential hotels) (390).
TB incidence is high among homeless persons, and evidence exists of considerable transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
Among 2,774 homeless persons enrolled during 1990--1994 in San Francisco, California, 25 incident cases were identified for 1992--1996, for an annual rate of 270 cases/100,00 population (118).
Among 20 M.
tuberculosis isolates from incident cases that were subjected to genotyping study, 15 (75%) were clustered, indicating chains of transmission in the population.
Other molecular epidemiology studies also have identified homelessness as an important risk factor for clustering of M.
tuberculosis isolates (33,119,391,392).
Shelters are key sites of TB transmission among homeless persons throughout the United States (27,33,118--120,166, 391--393).
In Los Angeles, California during March 1994--May 1997, three homeless shelters were sites of TB transmission for 55 (70%) of 79 homeless patients (33).
In Fort Worth, Texas during 1995--1996, clusters of cases among homeless persons occurred simultaneously in four homeless shelters (27).
In Alabama, genotyping of isolates from TB cases reported in 1994-98 revealed an undetected statewide outbreak of TB that was traced to transmission in a correctional facility and in two homeless shelters (166).
In an outbreak in a shelter in Syracuse, New York, during 1997--1998, a shelter resident was probably infectious for 10 months before receiving a diagnosis; ventilation in the shelter was poor, and the population included vulnerable persons with risk factors that included HIV infection, substance abuse, and malnutrition (120).
Multiple barriers to the control of TB among homeless persons have been identified.
Delays in detection of infectious cases have been reported (20); in a computer simulation study that modeled multiple strategies for TB control among homeless persons, a 10% improvement in access to treatment led to greater declines in disease and death after 10 years than comparable improvements in treatment programs (394).
Traditional methods of conducting contact investigations often fail to identify contacts of homeless persons with TB (30,119,120).
Difficulties also have been encountered in completing treatment for homeless patients with active TB (395) and LTBI (167,184).
Basis for Recommendations for Control of TB Among Homeless Persons Surveillance and case detection.
Delays in diagnosis and treatment of TB among homeless persons might occur as a result of delays in seeking medical care (181) and to the failure of medical providers to detect TB among those seeking care (20).
Homeless persons with TB are disproportionately likely to receive care in hospital EDs and other urgent care clinics (232).
For example, during 1994--1996, homeless persons in Atlanta, Georgia, were more likely than other patients to receive a diagnosis in a hospital ED (184).
On the basis of sputum AFB smear results and radiologic findings, homeless persons had more advanced disease at the time of diagnosis, another indication that they received diagnoses later in the course of their disease (184).
Shelters have proved to be effective sites for case detection by use of screening procedures among homeless persons.
During May 1996--February 1997, among 127 homeless persons in Alabama for whom shelter-based screening was conducted by using symptom evaluation, sputum culture, and chest radiographs as the screening package, four (3.1%) persons had TB disease (281).
Symptom evaluation alone was not proven to be useful.
In a similar study from London, United Kingdom, that employed symptom evaluation, tuberculin skin testing, and chest radiography, 1.5% of homeless persons were determined to have TB (396).
On the basis of findings of a high prevalence of TB in shelter-using homeless populations, certain communities have implemented compulsory screening of shelter residents based on symptom evaluation or tuberculin skin testing with radiographs for those with positive tests.
One such program in Portland, Oregon, initiated in 1985, was associated with an 89% reduction in TB morbidity in the geographic area served by participating shelters during 1980--1995 (397).
The implementation of a similar screening program in shelters in Denver, Colorado, in 1995 led to lower rates of active TB and reduced transmission of TB disease, as demonstrated by less genotype clustering by DNA fingerprinting (167).
Both screening programs were based on symptom evaluation, tuberculin skin testing, and chest radiography.
The decrease in TB morbidity in both these studies was attributed to shelter-based case detection through screening activities.
Case management.
Completion of treatment for active TB is more difficult for homeless persons, particularly those who report substance abuse, including alcohol abuse (395).
Homeless persons with active TB are at high risk for poor adherence even with enhanced DOT and are more likely to default and move from the area of initial diagnosis.
They are also more likely to have legal action taken in the form of court-ordered treatment or detention.
Comprehensive case management that includes a variety of incentives and enablers, including food, temporary housing, transportation vouchers, and treatment for substance abuse and mental illness has improved rates of treatment completion in this population.
Costs for homeless persons who are hospitalized for initial treatment of active TB have been $2,000 more than costs for persons who were not homeless (398).
Excess hospital utilization could be attributable to social considerations, clinical indications (especially the need to render a patient noninfectious before discharge to a congregate living setting), or concerns about adherence to the plan of treatment.
In San Diego, California, a novel housing program that used hostels facilitated the completion of treatment of TB in homeless persons (399).
Completion rates of 84%--100% were achieved for persons housed at a designated hostel in 1995.
Certain TB-control programs in cities with substantial homeless populations routinely provide temporary or longer-term housing in attempts to improve completion of treatment.
The California Department of Health allots funds for temporary housing of persons with TB to each of its county and local jurisdictions.
Department of Housing and Urban Development also provides funding for housing patients with TB.
The beneficial impact on treatment outcomes of an integrated approach to managing homeless patients with TB has been emphasized (394).
For example, a social care and health follow-up program among homeless patients in Spain was associated with a decrease in TB rates from 32.4/100,000 in 1987 to 19.8 cases/100,000 in 1992, and better completion rates and reduced costs for hospitalizations were also documented (400).
In Massachusetts, 58 (34.5%) of 214 persons hospitalized in a dedicated inpatient unit for difficult TB patients during 1990--1995 were homeless (401).
Regardless of the case-management plan that is chosen, all such interventions should take into consideration the importance of addressing major gaps in knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about TB among homeless persons (181).
Contact investigation.
Contact investigations for cases of TB among homeless persons are particularly challenging.
Homeless patients with TB often fail to identify contacts during routine investigation (30).
Completing a contact evaluation in identified contacts and completing treatment for LTBI among contacts that are homeless are often difficult (320,391,402).
Interpretation of the results of tuberculin skin testing of contacts of homeless cases is problematic because the background prevalence of positive tuberculin skin tests in the population is usually higher than that of the general population.
As with contact investigations among other populations at high risk, discerning when a contact investigation has become a targeted testing program is often difficult.
A proposed alternative approach to conducting contact investigations of homeless persons is to focus on possible sites or locations of exposure, such as shelters (391,393).
Targeted testing for and treatment of LTBI.
When homeless persons are identified as a population at high risk on the basis of the local epidemiology of TB, targeted testing and treatment protocols tailored to local circumstances should be developed.
However, low rates of completion of therapy for LTBI are commonly observed (167,184,402).
For example, among 7,232 inner city residents (including homeless persons) screened for LTBI during 1994--1996 in Atlanta, Georgia, 4,701 (65%) completed tuberculin skin testing; of 809 (17%) who had a positive test, 409 (50%) were candidates for isoniazid therapy, and 84 (20%) completed treatment (184).
In another study conducted in San Francisco, California, during 1991--1994 that was designed to improve adherence, two novel interventions (biweekly preventive DOT with either a $5 incentive or a peer health adviser) were compared with the usual method of self-supervised treatment (402).
Even though completion of treatment was not high for any of the three groups, multivariate analysis indicated that independent predictors of completion were being offered the monetary incentive and residence in a hotel or other stable housing at entry into the study.
That report confirmed an earlier finding that advocated offering monetary incentives (320).
Institutional and environmental controls.
Efforts have been made to reduce transmission of TB in shelters for homeless persons by enhancing institutional control measures.
These efforts have included reducing shelter size (13), improving ventilation systems, and using germicidal ultraviolet light (280).
Control of TB Among Detainees and Prisoners Correctional facilities in the United States include jails and prisons, which serve different but complementary functions.
Local and county governments operate the majority of jails.
Jails are characterized by rapid turnover of detainees with short lengths of stay.
State governments, the federal government, and the military all operate prison systems.
On any given day, approximately 2 million persons in the United States are incarcerated; 1.4 million of those are imprisoned, and the remainder are detained in jails.
Approximately 6 million persons are incarcerated in jails or prisons each year for variable lengths of time (124,125).
Detainees and prisoners represent the poorest and most medically underserved segments of the U.S.
population, the same population segments at risk for LTBI and TB disease (124,252,253).
Persons entering prisons have usually spent time in jail, and detainees and prisoners eventually reenter the community.
Consequently, TB outbreaks among detainees, prisoners, and the general population of a geographic area are interrelated (127,403), and close coordination of TB-control activities is needed between health programs in correctional facilities and jurisdictional public health agencies.
Prisons have long been identified as sites of transmission of M.
tuberculosis to other inmates and workers (38,139,404--408), including those with HIV infection (38,139,405,408).
In addition, time spent in jail is a risk factor for subsequent acquisition of TB (127,250,256), an indication that jails often are also sites of transmission.
Correctional facilities are among the most important sites of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in the United States.
Failure to detect TB in correctional facilities results in TB outbreaks, which have been well documented (37,139,404--408).
Outbreaks of multidrug-resistant TB involving inmates and staff, including HIV-infected persons, were a prominent component of the 1985--1992 TB resurgence in the United States (404,405,409--411).
However, outbreaks have continued to occur (37,139), even though TB control, including control of M.
tuberculosis transmission, in the United States has improved.
Basis for Recommendations on Control of TB Among Detainees and Prisoners Case detection and case management.
Despite the importance of jails and prisons in sustaining and amplifying the reservoir of TB in the United States (127,405,407), little is known about the optimal means of case detection of TB among detainees and prisoners.
The majority of prisons have adopted a case-detection strategy that is based on a survey of TB symptoms obtained on admission, in which all entrants are tested for M.
No data have been published supporting the effectiveness of symptom surveys and testing for M.
tuberculosis infection for detecting cases of TB and preventing transmission within jail systems, although screening by tuberculin skin testing was effective in controlling TB in one prison system (411).
Certain substantial urban jails perform chest radiographs on all persons entering the institution in an attempt to minimize transmission of TB (283,412), and data indicate that this approach is cost effective (412).
Because nearly all prison entrants have first been detained in a jail system, effective TB case-detection programs in jails will substantially decrease the probability that persons with undetected active TB will be admitted to prison.
Once cases are detected, strategies similar to those used in the community have led to high rates of successful treatment completion (413).
A particular problem for case management in a jail setting is the unanticipated release of detainees, which often precludes the development of an effective discharge plan.
Strategies to better coordinate discharges with public health authorities should be promoted.
Contact investigation.
Continuing outbreaks of TB in correctional facilities (37,139) underscore the importance of prompt and thorough contact investigations in jails and prisons.
Contact investigations in correctional facilities involve two steps: 1) identifying and evaluating persons exposed before the source-case was incarcerated, and 2) identifying and evaluating persons exposed during incarceration of the source-case.
Effective case detection is important to limit the size of the latter group.
Contact investigations often need to be conducted broadly, among more than one facility, because of the movement of detainees within the correctional system (414).
Conducting contact investigations based on the concentric circle method is difficult in correctional institutions.
Frequently, a single infected person can expose up to several hundred persons both before and after incarceration.
Cases involving persons who were exposed before incarceration should be managed by the jurisdictional public health agency for the community in which the person lived before arrest.
For the jurisdictional public health agency to carry out those contact investigations effectively, prompt notification and case reporting by the detention facility is necessary.
Guidelines for conducting contact investigations in jails have been published (258).
Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI.
Targeted testing and treatment of latent TB among detainees and prisoners has been described in detail (415--417).
Because of the high risk for transmission of M.
tuberculosis infection as part of TB case detection.
Detainees and prisoners with LTBI often are considered to be candidates for treatment of latent TB (124,252,253).
Prisons often are an ideal setting for effective treatment of LTBI because of known location of the patient, length of stay, prohibition of illicit drugs and alcohol, and a predictable diet.
Nevertheless, achieving high rates of completion of treatment for LTBI in prisons or jails has been difficult (257,416,417).
If treatment for LTBI is started in the jail setting, community follow-up after release from jail is essential.
Recent developments in short-course treatment of latent TB with a combination of rifampin and pyrazinamide for 2 months offered promise in improving treatment completion rates (419).
However, the toxicity of this regimen precludes its routine use (324), and this combination should generally not be used for the treatment of LTBI in correctional settings because the rates of toxicity have been similar to those observed in the wider community.
In addition, detainees and prisoners have high rates of hepatitis C infection, making them especially prone to serious hepatotoxicity.
Institutional infection control.
Correctional institutions have been sites of virulent outbreaks of TB, including multidrug-resistant TB, that have involved HIV-infected inmates and staff (37,139,405,408).
Common findings in these outbreaks have included the failure to isolate persons with active TB quickly.
Another common finding has been disease associated with rapid transmission of M.
tuberculosis when immunosuppressed detainees and prisoners are housed together.
An effective infection-control program can decrease the likelihood of TB transmission in correctional institutions (420).
Guidelines to assist correctional institutions in developing effective infection-control programs have been published (258).
Control of TB in Health-Care Facilities and Other High-Risk Environments During the 1985--1992 TB resurgence in the United States, TB cases resulted from transmission of M.
tuberculosis in settings where patients with infectious TB congregated closely with susceptible persons (52--54,170,421).
This epidemiologic disease pattern had not been recognized in the United States since the development of effective drugs against TB starting in the 1950s.
Hospitals and other health-care facilities were the primary, but not the only, sites of transmission (405,406,408), and HIV-infected persons were prominent among those who contracted M.
tuberculosis infection and rapidly acquired TB disease (52--54,170,406,408).
Although incidence of TB in health-care facilities has been markedly reduced because of the development and deployment of effective infection-control measures (56,422--424) and decreasing incidence of TB in different communities, TB disease attributable to recent transmission of M.
tuberculosis in other settings has not only persisted but has been recognized in a wide variety of sites and settings and become an established epidemiologic pattern.
As a consequence of the changed epidemiology of TB in the United States, the primary strategies now required to control the disease include measures for its prevention in settings in which a risk for transmission of M.
tuberculosis exists (Box 4).
Recommendations for infection-control measures in high-risk settings are provided in this statement.
The approach to control of TB and other airborne infections that was developed for health-care facilities (10) is the most successful model and is outlined in detail in this statement.
Recommendations are also provided for control of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in extended care facilities, correctional facilities, homeless shelters and other high-risk settings.
Control of TB in Health-Care Facilities Strategies for control of TB in health-care facilities, which also are applicable for other settings in which high-risk persons congregate, are based on comprehensive guidelines issued by CDC in 1994 (10).
New CDC guidelines for preventing transmission of M.
tuberculosis in health-care facilities will be published in 2005.
A draft† of these guidelines has been published in the Federal Register.
In the assessment of institutional risk for TB, three levels of risk (low, medium, and potential ongoing transmission) are recommended, based on the recent experience with TB in the institution and in the community it serves.
The recommended frequency of testing of employees for M.
tuberculosis infection varies, depending on the institution's level of risk.
The tuberculin skin test is recommended for testing HCWs and other employees with a risk for exposure to M.
tuberculosis.
QFT-G is also approved for detecting LTBI; guidelines for the use of QFT-G will be published in the MMWR.
The risk for TB associated with health-care facilities is related to the incidence of TB in the community served by the facility and to the efficacy of infection-control measures (422).
Implementation of infection-control guidelines (10) has markedly reduced risk for exposure to TB in health-care facilities during the past decade (56,422--424) and has also contributed to the decreasing numbers of TB cases.
Implementation of effective infection-control measures in the medical workplace is thus an important element of broader national and international strategies to prevent transmission of TB (244).
Epidemiologic investigations of the early outbreaks of TB in health-care facilities, including those involving multidrug-resistant cases, indicated that transmission usually occurred because of failure to identify and isolate patients with infectious forms of TB.
In certain instances, diagnosis of TB was delayed as a result of the atypical presentation of TB among patients with HIV infection, especially those with low CD4 counts.
Transmission was also facilitated by 1) the intermingling of patients with undiagnosed TB with patients who were highly susceptible; 2) inadequate laboratory facilities or delayed laboratory reporting; and 3) delayed institution of effective therapy.
Other factors facilitating transmission included a lack of negative pressure respiratory isolation rooms, recirculation of air from respiratory isolation rooms to other parts of the hospital, failure to isolate patients until they were no longer infectious, allowing isolated patients to leave their rooms without wearing a mask, and leaving respiratory isolation room doors open (52--54,170,421,425,426).
CDC guidelines recommend a hierarchy of TB infection-control measures (10).
In order of importance, these measures are administrative controls, engineering controls, and personal respiratory protection (PRP) (Box 7).
Administrative controls consist of measures to reduce the risk for exposure to persons with infectious TB, including screening of patients for symptoms and signs of TB at the time of admission, isolating those with suspected disease, establishing a diagnosis, and promptly initiating standard therapy (5).
Engineering control measures are designed to reduce dissemination of droplet nuclei containing M.
tuberculosis from infectious patients and include the use of airborne infection isolation rooms.
The third level (and the lowest on the hierarchy of controls) is the use of PRP devices such as N-95 respirators.
Respirator usage for the prevention of TB is regulated by the Occupational and Health Safety Administration under the general industry standard for respiratory protection§.
In implementing a comprehensive infection control program for TB, institutions should first conduct a risk assessment to determine what measures are applicable.
Risk for transmission of M.
tuberculosis varies widely, and procedures that are appropriate for an institution in an area of high TB incidence (e.g., an inner-city hospital or homeless shelter in a metropolitan high-incidence area) differ from those applicable to an institution located in a low incidence area that is rarely used by patients with TB.
The jurisdictional public health TB-control program should assist in the development of the assessment, which should include data on the epidemiology of TB in the community served by the institution and the number of TB patients receiving evaluation and care.
The institutional risk for TB can be stratified according to the size of the institution and the number of patients with TB as low risk, medium risk, or potential ongoing transmission.
Outpatient clinics, outreach programs, or home health settings that provide care for fewer than three patients with TB per year are considered low risk, and those that care for three or more patients are considered medium risk.
TB clinics, outreach programs, and other settings in which HCWs are responsible for the care of persons with TB are classified as medium risk.
Any institution, clinic, or setting with evidence of recent patient-to-patient or patient-to-employee transmission of M.
tuberculosis or of ongoing or unresolved transmission should be classified as having potential ongoing transmission until effective control measures have been implemented and transmission is interrupted.
Potential ongoing transmission is a temporary classification.
When transmission of M.
tuberculosis is suspected at a facility, an immediate investigation should be undertaken that includes consultation with public health officials or experts in hospital epidemiology and infection control.
Evidence of potential transmission of M.
tuberculosis includes clusters of conversions of tests for M.
tuberculosis infection among employees from negative to positive, increased rates of positive tests for M.
tuberculosis infection among employees, an employee with potentially infectious TB, unrecognized TB among patients or employees, and recognition of identical strains on genotyping of M.
tuberculosis isolates from patients or employees.
How often employees at health-care facilities and other at-risk sites for M.
tuberculosis infection are tested depends on the risk assessment.
The positive predictive value of the tuberculin skin test is low when populations with a low prevalence of infection with M.
tuberculosis are tested (424,427).
Consequently, frequent testing by using that method in low-incidence, low-risk settings is discouraged.
In addition, false-positive tests have been reported when institutions changed brands of Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) reagent, for example from Tubersol® to Aplisol® (427).
At the time of employment, all HCWs should undergo baseline testing (with two-step testing if the tuberculin skin test is used and no testing was performed during the preceding year) (10).
Those in medium-risk settings should be tested annually.
Follow-up testing is recommended for workers in low-risk settings only if exposure to a patient with infectious TB (i.e., a patient not initially isolated but later found to have laryngeal or pulmonary TB) has occurred.
Institutions in which ongoing transmission of M.
tuberculosis is documented should carry out testing for M.
tuberculosis infection of HCWs at risk every 3 months until transmission has been terminated.
Employees testing positive for M.
tuberculosis infection should receive a chest radiograph to exclude TB disease and should be evaluated for the treatment of LTBI based on current recommendations (4,324).
Compliance with therapy for LTBI among HCWs, including clinicians, has historically been poor (428--430).
Employee health clinics and infection-control departments should emphasize to HCWs the importance of completion of therapy for LTBI.
In a comprehensive infection-control program that encourages HCWs to complete treatment for LTBI, higher completion rates have been reported (431,432).
Control of Transmission of M.
tuberculosis in Other High-Risk Settings Extended Care facilities.
Elderly persons residing in a nursing home are almost twice as likely to acquire TB as those living in the community (252,433,434).
Certain considerations for control of TB in hospitals apply also to extended care facilities, including 1) maintaining a high index of suspicion for the disease; 2) promptly detecting cases and diagnosing disease; 3) isolating infectious persons and initiating standard therapy; 4) identifying and evaluating contacts; and 5) conducting contact investigations when indicated.
The value of treating LTBI in elderly residents of nursing homes so as to prevent future outbreaks has been documented (435).
In 1990, CDC published recommendations for TB control in extended care facilities (433).
Those long-term care facilities that do not have airborne-infection-isolation rooms should transfer patients suspected to have infectious TB to other facilities (including acute-care hospitals) until the disease is ruled in or out and treatment is started if indicated and continued until the patient is noninfectious (10).
The risk assessment and frequency of testing for LTBI for employees at long-term care facilities are similar to those described previously.
Residents should be tested on admission to the facility and should provide a history and undergo physical examination to identify symptoms and signs of TB.
Residents with LTBI should be offered treatment according to current recommendations (4,324), with careful monitoring for drug toxicity.
Correctional facilities.
Common findings in outbreaks of TB in correctional facilities were the failure to recognize and isolate patients with TB and rapid progression of outbreaks when immunosuppressed detainees were housed together (405,406,408).
Because of the substantial numbers of cases of TB infection and disease that might result from outbreaks at correctional facilities and the natural movement of inmates from incarceration to the general population, correctional facilities should be viewed as being among the most important sites of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in the United States (128,436).
Guidelines for control of TB transmission in correctional facilities (123) have emphasized that the infection-control principles developed for health-care facilities (10) are also applicable to correctional facilities.
In prisons and jails, the most important activity in TB infection control is efficient detection of infectious TB cases, including those that are prevalent among persons entering the facility and those that arise during detention.
A prompt diagnostic evaluation, respiratory isolation (including transfer out of the facility if airborne-infection-isolation rooms are not available), and institution of a standard treatment regimen are urgent priorities when suspected cases are encountered.
If this process is delayed, a substantial number of persons might be exposed as a result of the congregate living arrangements that characterize correctional facilities.
Because of crowded conditions that favor the spread of M.
tuberculosis (420) and the high prevalence of HIV infection among prisoners (255), contact investigations should be undertaken immediately once a case of TB has occurred at a facility.
In a study conducted in the Maryland state correctional system, prisons that conducted programs for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI among inmates experienced lower rates of tuberculin skin test conversions, an indication that this measure can contribute to successful infection control (420).
A template is now available to assist jails in instituting an effective infection-control program (258).
Shelters for homeless persons.
As with correctional facilities, homeless shelters are important sites of transmission of M.
tuberculosis and an important cause of the continuing high incidence of TB among the homeless population (33,118).
Effective infection-control strategies in those venues are use of M.
tuberculosis genotyping for rapid identification of clustered cases and sites of transmission (27,33), screening shelter users for TB disease, wide-ranging contact investigations, and engineering controls, including ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (437).
A systematic shelter- based program for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI in Denver was also demonstrated to decrease incidence of TB in the homeless population (167).
Because crowding and poor ventilation are often prevalent in shelters, infection-control efforts should also include engineering modifications to decrease exposure to M.
tuberculosis.
A guide to assist shelters in improving the safety of their environment through modifications in ventilation, air filtration, and the introduction of ultraviolet germicidal irradiation has been published (438).
Other high-risk settings.
As the incidence of TB has receded in recent years, new patterns of transmission have become evident.
Epidemiologic investigations prompted by an increase in the incidence in TB in a community or state or by the identification of clusters of cases with identical M.
tuberculosis genotype patterns have detected transmission in such venues as crack houses (137) and bars (27).
In addition, transmission has been identified in association with certain social activities that are not typically considered in routine contact investigations; a church choir (140), a floating card game (172), exotic dancers and their contacts (38), a transgender social network (34), and persons who drink together in multiple drinking establishments (439).
Although special techniques have been developed for exploring chains of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in complex social networks (439), transmission of M.
tuberculosis in such settings is not amenable to prevention by available infection-control strategies.
These newly identified patterns of transmission of M.
tuberculosis might be too complex to be detected and controlled by traditional approaches, and real-time M.
tuberculosis genotyping capable of identifying unsuspected linkages among incident cases might be increasingly useful (131).
This new TB threat, transmission in previously unknown settings, has emerged at a time when local TB-control programs often are not prepared to respond.
As TB morbidity decreases in the United States and TB-control programs necessarily contract, new approaches will emerge, particularly in low-incidence areas.
One model envisions that local public HCWs who do not work exclusively on TB are served by regional TB supervisors, who in turn are supported by statewide consultants and CDC specialists (172).
Research Needs to Enhance TB Control Implementation of the recommendations contained in this statement will likely improve TB control and allow progress to be made toward eliminating TB in the United States.
New tools are needed for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of TB to accelerate the decline in TB incidence and reach the elimination threshold sooner (1,2,45).
In addition, improved tests for the diagnosis of TB and LTBI and more effective drugs to treat them are needed to reduce the substantial worldwide burden of disease and death resulting from TB (44).
AFB smear microscopy and the tuberculin skin test, the most commonly used tests for the diagnosis of TB and latent infection respectively, derive from technology developed in the 19th Century; the only available vaccine against TB, BCG, dates from the early 20th Century; and rifampin, the most recent novel compound for treatment of TB, was introduced in 1963.
In the long term, the development of a new and effective vaccine would have the greatest impact on the global epidemic of TB, and the United States should lead the research and advocacy efforts to develop such a vaccine (180,440).
However, other advances in TB diagnosis and treatment might substantially improve the control of TB in the United States.
Better means to diagnose and treat LTBI are needed immediately.
Breakthrough diagnostics and drugs that would facilitate the more effective usage of this therapeutic intervention to prevent TB would have an immediate and lasting effect on the incidence of the disease in the United States by affecting at least three of the major challenges to TB control in the United States: the substantial pool of persons with LTBI, TB among foreign-born persons, and TB among contacts of persons with infectious TB (Box 1).
Public health interventions to control TB should be based on practices that have been demonstrated to be effective.
Because an established scientific basis is lacking for certain fundamental principles of TB control, including certain recommendations contained in this statement, logic, experience, and expert opinion have been used to guide clinical and public health practice to control TB.
In the preparation of these recommendations for TB control, deficiencies in evidence were frequently noted.
Better understanding is needed of which persons among the millions of foreign-born persons that enter the United States each year (Table 8) are at sufficient additional risk for TB to warrant public health intervention.
The approaches recommended for the development of programs for targeted testing of LTBI need additional verification.
The new concepts of identifying contacts of infectious TB cases (439) require refinement.
The optimal method of reducing the concentration of M.
tuberculosis in ambient air in venues such as homeless shelters is not yet defined (438).
Methods to monitor and evaluate TB control programs, and in particular, new activities such outbreak surveillance and response (441), should be delineated and standardized.
The epidemiology of TB in the United States is constantly changing.
Recent examples, as noted throughout this statement, are the increase in TB among foreign-born persons, the upsurge in reports of TB outbreaks, and the persistent high incidence of the disease among U.S.-born non-Hispanic blacks.
Epidemiologic studies, including economic analyses, are needed to augment surveillance data and facilitate decisions about allocation of effort and resources to address newly identified facets of the epidemiology of TB.
As new diagnostics are introduced to TB control, operational, economic, and behavioral studies will be needed to determine their most effective use.
For example, QFT, a new diagnostic test for LTBI, was licensed in 2001, and early research indicated that this new test might have advantages over the tuberculin skin test in distinguishing between latent M.
tuberculosis infection and infection with nontuberculous mycobacteria or vaccination with BCG (102).
A newer version of the test, QFT-G, was licensed in 2004.
The role of this new test in these populations has not been determined Thus, considerable research remains to be done to delineate the advantages this new test can bring to TB control.
Despite the best efforts of national, state, and local TB programs, nonadherence to prescribed treatment for TB and latent infection remains a major barrier to TB elimination.
As evidence of the importance of that intervention, completion of a course of treatment is the first national performance standard for TB (Table 4).
For the outcome of TB treatment to be improved, both patient and health-care provider behaviors related to adherence to TB treatment must be understood, and that understanding should be used to design and implement methods for improving adherence.
Although considerable research has been conducted in this field, no comprehensive effort has been undertaken to examine and compile the results and identify best practices.
Gaps in knowledge remain, and the need exists to develop and implement a comprehensive behavioral and social science research agenda to address these deficiencies.
Graded Recommendations for the Control and Prevention of Tuberculosis (TB) Recommendations for TB Laboratory Services Laboratorians, clinicians, and public health officials should work together to develop an integrated system that ensures timely laboratory testing and flow of information among laboratorians, clinicians, and TB controllers (AIII).
Public health laboratorians should take a leadership role to develop the laboratory system and assure that essential laboratory tests for TB control are available, accessible, standardized, reproducible, and with high sensitivity and specificity (AII).
Public health laboratories should educate laboratory staffs, health-care providers, and public health officials about the most effective uses of clinical microbiologic laboratory services.
The following laboratory results should be reported immediately (preferably by electronic or fax transmission) by the testing laboratory to the responsible clinician and to the jurisdictional TB control program: --- a positive smear for AFB and the subsequent growth detection (culture) result of that specimen; --- identification of M.
tuberculosis complex in any specimen; and --- drug susceptibility test results, especially when isolates are drug resistant (AII); and Clinical microbiologic laboratories should include, as part of quality improvement, a plan for identification and review of possible false-positive results.
Any false-positive result should trigger an inquiry and a plan of correction (155) (SP).
Recommendations for TB Case Detection Steps recommended by IOM (2) to improve public knowledge and awareness about the risk factors for TB, symptoms of TB, and the implications of the diagnosis of latent infection should be undertaken by TB-control programs, community-based organizations representing populations at high risk, and academic health sciences institutions.
Targeted education of populations at high risk might be particularly effective in neutralizing the stigma associated with TB among foreign-born populations on the basis of cultural beliefs in their country of origin.
Programs for patient education should always be designed with input from the targeted community (AII).
Because nonpublic health medical practitioners most often conduct the initial evaluation on persons who have symptoms related to TB, health departments, academic institutions, and medical professional organizations should provide continuing education about TB to their constituent health-care providers.
These efforts should be focused on clinicians serving populations at high risk for TB on the basis of local or regional trends in TB epidemiology (AIII).
Jurisdictional public health agencies should ensure that clinicians who evaluate persons with suspected TB have access to current, accurate, and timely diagnostic services (SP).
Guidelines for detection of TB cases in clinical settings should be followed by primary care, ED, and hospital-based practitioners (Table 5).
Screening for TB cases during contact and outbreak investigations and during the evaluation of immigrants and refugees with Class A/B1/B2 TB notification status has a high yield of finding cases (Table 6) and should be given high priority as a method for TB case detection (AII).
Public health programs should identify other opportunities for screening for TB disease on the basis of the local epidemiology of TB, such as in congregate settings, homeless shelters, and correctional facilities in which the consequences of an undiagnosed case are severe.
All case detection activities should be evaluated periodically to determine their usefulness (AII).
Recommendations for Contact Investigations and for Outbreak Prevention and Response Contact investigations are a critical component of TB control, following only TB case detection and treatment in priority (AIII).
State and local health departments should establish a comprehensive contact investigation program to ensure that contacts of infectious TB cases are identified, access to adequate care is provided, and therapy is completed (AIII).
TB-control programs should develop a protocol for conducting contact investigations that identifies persons responsible for each step of the investigation and outline processes to maximize the efficiency of the process within the framework of available resources (AIII).
TB-control programs should have procedures for voluntary HIV counseling and testing of contacts.
Those procedures should set priorities for HIV counseling and testing of contacts on the basis of locally derived data on the risk for HIV infection among contacts or, alternatively, on the local epidemiology of TB and HIV infection (BIII).
DOT for LTBI should be considered for all contacts.
High risk contacts should receive highest priority for directly observed treatment (AIII).
TB-control programs should apply existing communicable disease laws that protect the health of the community to contacts who fail to comply with the examination requirements (BIII).
TB-control programs should develop guidelines, in conjunction with the program legal office and in compliance with HIPAA rule, for release of confidential information related to conducting contact investigations (BIII).
TB-control programs should evaluate the effectiveness and impact of contact investigations and develop interventions to improve performance when indicated (BIII).
TB-control programs should develop outbreak response plans for their jurisdictions.
These plans should include indications for initiating the plan, notification procedures, composition of the response team, source of staffing, plan for follow-up and treatment of contacts, indications for requesting assistance from CDC, and a plan for evaluating the outbreak response (BIII).
Populations and communities should be categorized on the basis of the expected impact and efficacy of targeted testing in the setting.
Tier 1 groups (Box 6) should receive the highest priority, followed by groups in Tier 2 and Tier 3 (AII).
Once the targeted population or community has been identified, strategic and operational decisions should be made on how best to establish the targeted testing and treatment program.
Questions to decide include where to locate the program, how to identify and allocate resources, what training is needed for practitioners and patients, and what data-management needs exist.
Focus groups, influential community leaders, associations and community action agencies, religious organizations, coalitions, block organizations, and informal community groups all can contribute to these decisions (AII).
Public health agencies that establish targeted testing and treatment programs should maximize patient convenience and acceptance through strategies such as employing, when possible, staff members from the populations being served, medical translation, cultural awareness and sensitivity, flexible clinic hours, outreach services for patient transport, and the use of incentives and enablers.
All services should be free of cost to patients (AII).
Targeted testing programs established in the community (e.g., at community health centers, schools, prisons, jails, substance abuse centers, and homeless shelters) should receive full support from the jurisdictional public health agency.
Such support might be decisive in the success of nonpublic health targeted testing and treatment programs.
Types of support should include training and education of providers, patient education materials, provisions of medication, radiographs and other laboratory services, clinical consultation, and design of tracking and data management systems (AII).
Targeted testing programs should be routinely and systematically evaluated for their effectiveness, efficiency and impact.
Programs that are not effective should be improved or discontinued (AIII).
Recommendations for TB Control Among Children and Adolescents Case Detection and Primary Prevention Strategy Timely reporting of suspected cases of infectious TB is crucial to the prevention of TB among children (AII).
Contact investigation of adults with infectious TB is the most important activity for early detection of TB among children, identification of children with LTBI who are at high risk for progressing to primary TB and its sequellae, and determination of the drug susceptibility pattern of the M.
tuberculosis isolate causing TB disease or LTBI in a child.
Contact investigations should be timely and thorough, and adequate resources for them should be made available.
This should be one of the highest priority goals of any TB-control program (AII).
Once active TB has been ruled out, children with positive tuberculin skin test results should receive a full course of treatment for LTBI.
Those who have negative skin test results should also receive treatment for presumed LTBI.
A second tuberculin test is then placed at least 3 months after exposure to infectious TB has ended.
If the second test result is positive, treatment should be continued for a full course of treatment for LTBI.
If the second test result is negative, treatment may be stopped (AII).
Case Management DOT should be the standard of care for treatment of TB disease among children and adolescents (AII).
As adherence to treatment is no better for children than for adults, all efforts should be made to support children and families through treatment of TB through comprehensive case management (AIII).
Contact Investigation Infants and younger children with primary TB disease are rarely if ever contagious.
They do not need to be excluded from activities or isolated in health-care settings (AII).
Children and adolescents of any age with characteristics of adult-type TB (i.e., productive cough and cavitary or extensive upper lobe lesions on chest radiograph) should be considered potentially contagious at the time of diagnosis (AII).
Infants with suspected or proven congenital pulmonary TB should be considered contagious and effective infection-control measures should be undertaken (AII).
Adults who accompany and visit children with TB in health-care settings should be evaluated for TB disease as soon as possible to exclude the possibility that they are the source case for the child.
These adults should have a chest radiograph to rule out pulmonary TB and to prevent the possibility of transmission within the health-care setting (AII).
Such investigations may be performed by public health agencies or primary health-care providers (BII).
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI Contact investigations of adults with TB and targeted tuberculin skin testing of foreign-born children from countries with a high incidence of TB are the best and most efficient methods for finding children with LTBI (AII).
Because foreign birth in a country with a high prevalence of TB is the greatest attributable risk factor for LTBI, children born in or with extensive travel to such countries should be targeted for testing for LTBI.
This includes foreign-born adopted children.
Testing for LTBI among children with low risk for infection should be avoided (AII).
A risk assessment questionnaire can be used to identify children with risk factors for LTBI who should undergo a tuberculin skin test (AI).
A decision to place a tuberculin skin test is a commitment to arrange evaluation and treatment for LTBI (SP).
A tuberculin skin test should always be placed, read, and interpreted by specifically trained persons (SP).
In general, foreign-born children with LTBI should be treated with isoniazid unless information exists linking them to a specific case of isoniazid-resistant TB (AIII).
DOT should be considered strongly as the means of treatment for newborns and infants, contacts of persons with recent cases, and immune-compromised children and adolescents with LTBI because they are at greatest risk for progression to TB disease (AIII).
Recommendations for TB Control Among Foreign-Born Persons Surveillance Public health agencies in states and communities with a substantial number of TB cases among foreign-born persons should develop enhanced surveillance methods in order to gain a detailed understanding of the local epidemiology of TB among foreign-born persons.
This is important for program planning and to ensure that recently arrived immigrants, refugees, and other foreign-born persons at high risk have access to medical and public health services (AIII).
Imported cases of TB present at the time of entry should be distinguished from incident cases, i.e., those that arise during residence in the United States (AIII).
Cases of TB among persons granted temporary entry to the United States as visitors, students, and temporary workers and unauthorized aliens (Table 7) should be distinguished from those among foreign-born permanent residents (AIII).
Cases identified as a result of targeted testing activities should be distinguished from those identified by noting symptoms of active TB (AIII).
For TB control along the U.S.-Mexico border to be facilitated, a binational TB case definition and TB registry system should be adopted and evaluated (AIII).
Case Detection Jurisdictional public health agencies responsible for TB control should undertake or engage community groups to undertake education campaigns for foreign-born persons at high risk.
These campaigns should communicate the importance of TB as a personal and public health threat, the symptoms to look for, how to access diagnostic and targeted testing services in the community, and the concept of LTBI.
The purpose of this education is to destigmatize the infection, acquaint the population with available medical and public health services, and explain the approaches used to treat, prevent, and control TB (AIII).
Public health agencies conducting TB-control programs should establish liaisons with primary care physicians, community health centers, hospital EDs, and other organizations that provide health care for foreign-born populations at high risk to provide TB publications and guidelines and education about the local epidemiology of TB (AIII).
Public health agencies conducting TB-control programs should establish liaisons with civil surgeons within their jurisdictions.
They should also ensure that civil surgeons have access to recent TB publications and guidelines and that they promptly report all suspected cases of TB (AIII).
CDC should provide standardized education and training programs with a formal certification process for panel physicians and civil surgeons.
As part of the certification, continuing education programs should be required (AIII).
Federal, state and local public health agencies should assign high priority to the follow-up of immigrants with a Class A TB waiver and Class B1 and B2 TB notification status (AII).
Case Management Culturally appropriate case management should be instituted, including readily available professional translation and interpretation services, for all foreign-born persons.
If possible, outreach workers should be from the patient's own cultural background (AII).
Contact Investigation Local and state jurisdictions should assign high priority to contact investigations of foreign-born persons with TB because of the high likelihood of identifying persons with LTBI as well as secondary TB cases (AII).
Culturally sensitive and appropriate contact investigation protocols should be established (AIII).
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI In jurisdictions where foreign-born persons constitute a major proportion of the TB burden, targeted testing and treatment of LTBI for foreign-born persons at high risk (4) should be implemented as a primary means of preventing TB in the community.
The tiered approach (Box 6), which is based on access to the target populations and likelihood of implementing a successful program, should be employed (AII).
In developing the plan for targeted testing and treatment of LTBI among foreign-born persons at high risk, TB-control programs should collaborate with health-care providers, neighborhood health centers, and community advocacy groups that serve and work with the target populations (AII).
The testing of immigrants and refugees with a Class A TB waiver and Class B1 and B2 TB notification status for LTBI as well as for active TB should always be prioritized (AII).
When resources permit, DOT for LTBI should be used to ensure high completion rates (BII).
Jurisdictional public health agencies should work with local colleges and universities to develop targeted testing protocols for foreign-born students at high risk and assist with treatment of LTBI (BIII).
Recommendations for TB Control Among HIV-Infected Persons HIV Counseling and Testing Voluntary HIV counseling and testing is recommended for all patients with TB and should be considered the standard of care.
In extreme circumstances, if establishing priorities is necessary as a result of resource constraints, patients aged 25--44 years should receive highest priority (SP).
Clinic staff members at sites where patients with TB are followed should receive up-to-date education and training on the most current concepts and methodology of voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and referral.
If on-site HIV testing is not feasible, TB facilities should have well-established arrangements for referral to other testing sites (SP).
Voluntary HIV counseling and testing should be offered routinely to contacts of HIV-infected TB cases (AII).
In other communities and settings, the decision of whether to routinely offer voluntary HIV counseling and testing to contacts of persons with infectious TB should be based on the local epidemiology of HIV infection and TB.
In communities and settings in which the HIV seroprevalence likely approaches that of the general U.S.
Otherwise the decision of whether to routinely offer HIV counseling and testing to persons with LTBI should based on the local epidemiology of HIV infection and TB.
In other communities and settings the HIV seroprevalence is likely to approach that of the general U.S.
Persons with clinical or behavioral risk factors (302) should receive HIV counseling and testing (AII).
Routine periodic cross-matches of jurisdictional HIV and TB case registries should be conducted to ensure completeness of reporting of both diseases (SP).
Case Detection Physicians who provide primary care to persons with HIV infection or populations at increased risk for HIV infection should maintain a high index of suspicion for TB.
Every patient in whom HIV infection has been newly diagnosed should be assessed for the presence of TB or LTBI.
Physical examination should include examination of extrapulmonary sites such as lymph nodes, and a chest radiograph should be taken to check for findings of current or previous TB.
Testing for M.
Public health agencies conducting TB-control activities should maintain close contact with HIV control programs, medical practitioners and clinics, community-based organizations, homeless shelters, correctional facilities, and housing facilities that serve persons with HIV infection to ensure that a high index of awareness of TB is maintained by persons who provide services at those sites and by their HIV-infected patients (AIII).
Health-care facilities, social service agencies, and work sites that serve patients with HIV infection should establish firm lines of referral for patients with respiratory symptoms (AIII).
Case Management Public health agencies conducting TB-control activities should have access to consultants with expertise in managing HIV related TB (SP).
Management of TB and HIV infection should be effectively integrated and should include a multidisciplinary team of providers and supportive care (AIII).
Comprehensive case management, including DOT, is strongly recommended for persons with HIV infection who have TB (AII).
Contact Investigation Contact investigations of persons with TB and known or suspected HIV infection and those conducted in any circumstance in which HIV-infected persons could have been exposed to a person with infectious TB should have the highest priority and be completed without delay (AII).
Persons with known or suspected HIV infection who have contact with a patient with infectious pulmonary TB should be offered a full course of treatment for LTBI regardless of the initial result of tuberculin skin testing once active TB has been ruled out (AII).
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI Targeted testing and treatment for LTBI are strongly recommended at the time the diagnosis of HIV infection is established (AII).
For HIV-infected persons whose initial tuberculin skin test is negative, repetitive testing is recommended (at least yearly) if the local epidemiologic setting indicates an ongoing risk for exposure to TB (AII).
An HIV-infected patient who is severely immunocompromised and whose initial tuberculin skin test result is negative should be retested after the initiation of antiretroviral therapy and immune reconstitution, when CD4 cell counts are greater than 200 cells/µL) (AII).
HIV-infected persons who receive a diagnosis of LTBI should receive high priority for DOT (BIII).
Institutional Infection Control HIV-infected persons should be advised that certain occupations and activities increase the likelihood of exposure to TB.
These include employment and volunteer work in certain health-care facilities, correctional institutions, and shelters for the homeless, as well as in other high-risk settings identified by jurisdictional health authorities.
The decision about continuing employment or volunteer activities in a high-risk setting should be made in consultation with a health-care professional and be based on factors such as the person's specific duties in the workplace, prevalence of TB in the community, and the degree to which precautions are taken to prevent TB transmission in the workplace (AIII).
Recommendations for TB Control Among Homeless Persons Surveillance and Case Detection Information on whether the person is homeless should be included for each reported TB case to determine the importance of homelessness in the TB morbidity in the state or community.
This is particularly important for communities that provide shelters or other congregate living facilities that are conducive to the transmission of TB (AII).
In designing programs for control and prevention of TB in homeless persons, public health agencies should work closely with providers of shelter, housing, primary health care, treatment for alcoholism or substance abuse, and social services to ensure a comprehensive approach to improving the health and welfare of this population (AIII).
Public health agencies should closely monitor the location, mode (i.e., screening or symptomatic presentation), and timeliness of diagnosis of TB in homeless persons in their community and use such data to develop more effective control strategies (AIII).
Public health agencies should identify providers of medical care for homeless persons and facilities that serve homeless persons (e.g., hospital EDs and correctional institutions) to ensure that practices and procedures are implemented to readily detect and report suspected cases of TB (AIII).
Providers of primary health care for homeless persons should be knowledgeable about how to diagnose (Table 5), isolate, and report suspected cases of TB (AIII).
Public health agencies should have ready access to an inpatient facility for the isolation and induction phase of therapy of homeless patients with infectious TB (AII).
Public health agencies should be prepared to conduct activities to detect TB among persons without symptoms and enhance TB case detection as part of a plan for TB control among homeless persons (Table 6).
Indications for screening for TB disease include 1) a documented outbreak, 2) an increase in incidence of TB in the homeless population, and 3) evidence of current transmission of TB in the population.
Shelters should always be suspected as sites of transmission (AII).
Case Management Case management for homeless persons with TB should be structured to encourage adherence to treatment regimens by making TB treatment a major priority for the patient.
It should include provision of housing, at least on a temporary basis; an increasing number of models have demonstrated the importance of a housing incentive in successful treatment of TB in homeless persons.
Case management should also include establishing linkages with providers of alcohol and substance treatment services, mental health services, and social services (AII).
Contact Investigation Health departments should regularly evaluate their methods for contact investigation for cases of TB among homeless persons to identify barriers and develop alternative strategies, such as shelter- or other location-based contact investigations oriented to possible sites of transmission.
Factors to evaluate should include timeliness of completing contact investigations, number of contacts identified and evaluated per case, proportion of evaluated contacts with LTBI and TB disease, and completion of treatment of LTBI among contacts (AII).
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI Targeted testing and treatment of LTBI should be a priority for homeless populations because studies from throughout the United States have demonstrated high rates of transmission of M.
tuberculosis in this group.
This epidemiologic situation, causing a high ongoing risk for acquiring LTBI and TB disease, might necessitate repetitive testing for M.
tuberculosis infection among homeless persons (AII).
When high rates of transmission of M.
tuberculosis are documented among homeless persons, those with a positive test for M.
tuberculosis infection should be presumed to be recently infected and treated for LTBI (AIII).
Institutional and Environmental Controls Organizations that provide shelter and other types of emergency housing for homeless persons should develop institutional TB-control plans.
Guidelines to facilitate this process are available from CDC (9) and the Francis J.
Curry National TB Center (403) (AII).
Recommendations for TB Control Among Detainees and Prisoners Case Detection and Case Management All jails and prisons should conduct a TB case detection program for detainees and prisoners entering the facility as well as for those who become ill during incarceration to ensure prompt isolation of contagious cases of TB (AII).
Strategies for case detection for incoming detainees and prisoners include symptom surveys (BIII), testing for M.
tuberculosis infection followed by chest radiography (BIII) for those with a positive test, and universal chest radiography in jails (BII).
In each setting, the adopted strategy should receive ongoing evaluation.
Each correctional facility's health-care program for inmates and staff should ensure that training in the clinical and public health aspects of TB and other diseases of public health significance is provided in an ongoing manner (SP).
Detainees and prisoners with signs and symptoms of TB should be placed in respiratory isolation on-site or off-site until infectious TB is ruled out (SP).
Case-management strategies including DOT and incentives should be used to assure completion of therapy of detainees and prisoners with TB (BII).
When detainees and prisoners receiving therapy for TB are transferred to another facility or released from detention, responsibility for continuation of the treatment plan should be transferred to the appropriate facility or agency, and the jurisdictional TB-control program should be notified (SP).
Contact Investigation Contact investigations of infectious TB cases in corrections facilities should receive equal priority as effective case detection as the primary means of aborting TB outbreaks.
Facilities should have written procedures for contact investigations and have adequate staff to ensure prompt and thorough contact investigations.
They should also consult with the jurisdictional public health TB-control program (AII).
Targeted Testing and Treatment of LTBI Prisons should implement a treatment program for prisoners with LTBI as part of the effort to prevent the transmission of M.
tuberculosis within their walls and to contribute to the overall goal of TB elimination (AII).
Treatment programs for LTBI in jail detainees should be undertaken only if it is possible to develop a successful plan for community follow-up of released persons on treatment (AII).
Reducing the length of treatment for LTBI is more likely to lead to completion of treatment in correctional facilities; 4 months of rifampin is recommended as an alternative for the treatment of LTBI (4,324).
Correctional health providers need to consider the costs and benefits of this regimen compared with the standard 9-month course of isoniazid in each individual case (BIII).
Institutional Infection Control Jails and prisons should implement effective infection-control programs including risk assessment, staff training, screening and treatment of LTBI, isolation of inmates with infectious forms of TB, treatment and discharge planning, and contact investigation (AII).
HIV-infected detainees and prisoners should not be housed together in a separate facility unless institutional control programs following current guidelines have been established and proved to be effective in preventing the transmission of M.
tuberculosis (AIII).
Recommendations for TB Control in Health-Care Facilities and Other High-Risk Settings All health-care institutions and other sites at high risk for transmission of M.
tuberculosis should have in place a TB infection control program; they should implement and enforce procedures to promptly identify, isolate, and either manage or refer persons with suspected and confirmed infectious TB (AII).
All health-care institutions that care for persons with TB and other sites that are at risk for transmission should implement TB infection-control measures based on a hierarchy of administrative controls, engineering controls, and respiratory protection.
Administrative controls and early recognition of persons with TB are the most important parts of an airborne infection control program for TB (AII).
Employees who have first contact with patients in settings that serve populations at high risk for TB should be trained to detect persons who could have infectious TB.
Patients should be routinely asked about exposure to M.
tuberculosis, previous TB infection or disease, current symptoms suggestive of TB, and medical conditions that increase the risk for TB.
The medical evaluation should include an interview conducted in the patient's primary language, with the assistance of a medical interpreter if necessary (AIII).
The index of suspicion for TB should be very high in health-care settings located in geographic areas where TB is prevalent and those serving patients at high risk for TB.
Guidelines exist for conducting an evaluation for suspected pulmonary TB in adults at high risk (Table 5) (AIII).
Among persons suspected of having TB, arrangements should be available for the diagnosis to be promptly established and standard therapy initiated (AII).
HCWs and employees in other high-risk settings should be tested for M.
tuberculosis infection upon employment.
Subsequent testing should be based on risk assessment (AIII).
Health-care facilities and other high-risk institutions should conduct a risk assessment to determine the frequency of testing for M.
tuberculosis infection among employees, as a component of the proper level of TB infection control measures (AIII).
For HCWs and employees in other high-risk settings with no other risk factors for TB, a cut-off of 15 mm of induration (rather than 10 mm) on the tuberculin skin test should be used to define a positive baseline test at the time of initial employment.
Employees with M.
tuberculosis infection should have a chest radiograph performed to exclude TB disease and should be evaluated for treatment of LTBI, based on current recommendations (AII).
HCWs and employees in other high risk settings with an indication for treatment of LTBI should be encouraged to initiate and complete treatment (AII).
Residents admitted to long-term care facilities should be tested for M.
tuberculosis infection upon admission (with a two-step test if using tuberculin skin testing) and should receive a history and physical examination to detect symptoms and signs of TB.
Residents with M.
tuberculosis infection should be offered treatment if indicated (4,324), with careful monitoring for drug toxicity (BII).
Jails and prisons should develop and implement effective infection-control programs including risk assessment, staff training, screening for TB among incoming detainees and prisoners, isolation of inmates with infectious forms of TB, treatment and discharge planning and prompt and thorough contact investigations (AII).
In jails and prisons, HIV-infected inmates should not be housed together in a separate housing unit unless institutional control programs following current guidelines have been established and proved to be effective in preventing the transmission of M.
tuberculosis (AII).
Organizations that provide shelter and other types of emergency housing for homeless persons should develop institutional TB-control plans.
Guidelines to facilitate this process are available from the Francis J.
Curry National TB Center (403) (AII).
TB-control programs should remain aware of the possibility of TB disease as a result of current transmission when conducting epidemiologic surveillance and contact investigations.
tuberculosis genotyping should be immediately available to any program that is investigating possible transmission of M.
tuberculosis (AII).
In an era of declining rates of TB in the United States, expertise in the recognition, diagnosis and treatment of TB is likely to decline, especially in areas in which incidence is low (48).
Because the risk for spread of M.
tuberculosis increases when the diagnosis is not promptly made, institutional education programs for HCWs, including physicians in training, should be made a continuing priority (AIII).
Recommendations on Research for Progress Toward Elimination of TB A comprehensive TB research plan for the United States should be developed that identifies the major areas of need and the most effective research approaches to meet those needs.
CDC and NIH should convene a broadly-based group of experts and stakeholders to develop this plan (AIII).
The availability of improved diagnostic tests and therapies for LTBI would have an immediate and lasting impact on the incidence of TB in the United States, and research in those fields should be a priority (AIII).
Research leading to a new and effective TB vaccine is one of the most important contributions that the United States can make to the global TB epidemic and should be a priority (AIII).
The CDC-funded Tuberculosis Epidemiological Studies Consortium and Tuberculosis Trials Consortium represent excellent new models for bringing resources from the Federal government, public health agencies, and academia together to plan and implement research for the assessment of new diagnostics and drugs and epidemiologic and operational research on TB.
These initiatives should be a priority (AIII).
Because a substantial number of recommendations for TB control are based on logic, anecdotal experience, and expert opinion, additional research, including clinical, operational, behavioral, and economic research should focus on unanswered questions relating to the basic elements of TB control (AIII).
Acknowledgments The following persons provided constructive and helpful insights: WJ Burman, MD, Denver Public Health, Denver, Colorado.
EP Desmond, MD, California Department of Health Services, Richmond; PC Hopewell, MD, San Francisco General Hospital, University of California, San Francisco; A Green Rush, Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center, San Francisco, California.
RJ O'Brien, MD, Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Geneva, Switzerland.
T Oemig, Wisconsin Division of Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin.
PM Small, MD, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle; G Wang, MD, Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, Seattle, Washington.
KG Castro, MD, MF Iademarco, MD, L Nelson, MD, TR Navin, MD, T Shinnick, MD, Div of TB Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, & TB Prevention, Coordinating Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC.
A Lipavsky and B Nodell also assisted in the preparation of this report.
References CDC.
Tuberculosis elimination revisited: obstacles, opportunities, and a renewed commitment---Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-9):1--13.
Institute of Medicine.
Ending neglect: the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, National Academy Press; 2000.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis in adults and children.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161(4 Pt 1):1376--95.
American Thoracic Society, CDC.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161(4 Pt 2):S221--47.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Treatment of tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:603--62.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Control of tuberculosis in the United States.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1992;146:1623--33.
Kish MA; Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Guide to development of practice guidelines.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;32:851--4.
Horsburgh CR Jr., Feldman S, Ridzon R; Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Practice guidelines for the treatment of tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;31:633--9.
Guidelines for preventing opportunistic infections among HIV-infected persons---2002: recommendations of the U.S.
Public Health Service and the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
MMWR 2002;51(No.
RR-8):1--52.
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health-care facilities, 1994.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
RR-13): 1--132.
A strategic plan for the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
MMWR 1989;38:269--72.
National Coalition for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis elimination: the federal funding gap.
Washington, DC: National Coalition for the Elimination of Tuberculosis; 2002.
Frieden TR, Fujiwara PI, Washko RM, Hamburg MA.
Tuberculosis in New York City---turning the tide.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:229--33.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2003.
Atlanta, GA; US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Trends in tuberculosis---United States, 1998--2003.
MMWR 2004;53:209--14.
McKenna MT, McCray E, Jones JL, Onorato IM, Castro KG.
The fall after the rise: tuberculosis in the United States, 1991 through 1994.
Am J Public Health 1998;88:1059--63.
Essential components of a tuberculosis prevention and control program: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1995;44(No.
RR-11):1--16.
Rubel AJ, Garro LC.
Social and cultural factors in the successful control of tuberculosis.
Public Health Rep 1992;107:626--36.
Asch S, Leake B, Gelberg L.
Does fear of immigration authorities deter tuberculosis patients from seeking care?
West J Med 1994;161:373--6.
Sherman LF, Fujiwara PI, Cook SV, Bazerman LB, Frieden TR.
Patient and health care system delays in the diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:1088--95.
Talbot EA, Moore M, McCray E, Binkin NJ.
Tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States, 1993--1998.
JAMA 2000;284:2894--900.
DeRiemer K, Rudoy I, Schecter GF, Hopewell PC, Daley CL.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis diagnosed after death in San Francisco, 1986--1995.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:488--93.
Kramer F, Modilevsky T, Waliany AR, Leedom JM, Barnes PF.
Delayed diagnosis of tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Am J Med 1990;89:451--6.
Rao VK, Iademarco EP, Fraser VJ, Kollef MH.
Delays in the suspicion and treatment of tuberculosis among hospitalized patients.
Ann Intern Med 1999;130:404--11.
Curtis AB, Ridzon R, Vogel R, et al.
Extensive transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from a child.
N Engl J Med 1999;341:1491--5.
Fitzpatrick LK, Hardacker JA, Heirendt W, et al.
A preventable outbreak of tuberculosis investigated through an intricate social network.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1801--6.
Weis SE, Pogoda JM, Yang Z, et al.
Transmission dynamics of tuberculosis in Tarrant County, Texas.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002;166:36--42.
Bishai WR, Graham NM, Harrington S, et al.
Molecular and geographic patterns of tuberculosis transmission after 15 years of directly observed therapy.
JAMA 1998;280:1679--84.
Chin DP, Crane CM, Diul MY, et al.
Spread of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a community implementing recommended elements of tuberculosis control.
JAMA 2000;283:2968--74.
Reichler MR, Reves R, Bur S, et al.
Evaluation of investigations conducted to detect and prevent transmission of tuberculosis.
JAMA 2002;287:991--5.
Marks SM, Taylor Z, Qualls NL, Shrestha-Kuwahara RJ, Wilce MA, Nguyen CH.
Outcomes of contact investigations of infectious tuberculosis patients.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2033--8.
Reichler MR, Reves R, Bur S, et al.; Contact Investigation Study Group.
Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in contacts of new tuberculosis cases in the United States.
South Med J 2002;95:414--20.
Barnes PF, Yang Z, Pogoda JM, et al.
Foci of tuberculosis transmission in central Los Angeles.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159 (4 Pt 1):1081--6.
Sterling TR, Thompson D, Stanley RL, et al.
A multi-state outbreak of tuberculosis among members of a highly mobile social network: implications for tuberculosis elimination.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4:1066--73.
Drug-susceptible tuberculosis outbreak in a state correctional facility housing HIV-infected inmates---South Carolina, 1999--2000.
MMWR 2000;49:1041--4.
Conover C, Ridzon R, Valway S, et al.
Outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis at a methadone treatment program.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:59--64.
McLaughlin SI, Spradling P, Drociuk D, Ridzon R, Pozsik CJ, Onorato I.
Extensive transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis among congregated, HIV-infected prison inmates in South Carolina, United States.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:665--72.
Cluster of tuberculosis cases among exotic dancers and their close contacts---Kansas, 1994--2000.
MMWR 2001;50:291--3.
Bennett DE, Courval JM, Onorato IM, et al.
In: Program and abstracts, 131st annual meeting of the American Public Health Association; San Francisco, California, November 15--19, 2003.
Chaulk CP, Grady M.
Evaluating tuberculosis control programs: strategies, tools and models.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4(2 Suppl 1):S55--60.
Nardell EA.
Needles in haystacks: diagnosing tuberculosis under low prevalence conditions.
Tuber Lung Dis 1996;77:389--90.
Mahmoudi A, Iseman MD.
Pitfalls in the care of patients with tuberculosis.
Common errors and their association with the acquisition of drug resistance.
JAMA 1993;270:65--8.
Institute of Medicine.
The future of public health.
Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, National Academy Press; 1988.
Corbett EL, Watt CJ, Walker N, et al.
The growing burden of tuberculosis: global trends and interactions with the HIV epidemic.
Arch Intern Med 2003;163:1009--21.
Miller B, Castro KG.
Sharpen available tools for tuberculosis control, but new tools needed for elimination.
JAMA 1996;276:1916--7.
Frieden TR, Sterling TR, Munsiff SS, Watt CJ, Dye C.
Tuberculosis.
Lancet 2003;362(9387):887--99.
Cantwell MF, Snider DE Jr., Cauthen GM, Onorato IM.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis in the United States, 1985 through 1992.
JAMA 1994;272:535--9.
Progressing toward tuberculosis elimination in low-incidence areas of the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 2002;51 (No.
RR-5):1--16.
Hopewell PC.
Targeting tuberculosis prevention.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2017--8.
Running on empty: the state budget crisis worsens.
National Health Policy Forum Issue Brief 2002(783):1--19.
Community-wide implementation of targeted testing for and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Clin Infect Dis 1999;29:880--7.
Fischl MA, Uttamchandani RB, Daikos GL, et al.
An outbreak of tuberculosis caused by multiple-drug-resistant tubercle bacilli among patients with HIV infection.
Ann Intern Med 1992;117:177--83.
Beck-Sague C, Dooley SW, Hutton MD, et al.
Hospital outbreak of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections.
Factors in transmission to staff and HIV-infected patients.
JAMA 1992; 268:1280--6.
Edlin BR, Tokars JI, Grieco MH, et al.
An outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among hospitalized patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:1514--21.
Ellis BA, Crawford JT, Braden CR, McNabb SJ, Moore M, Kammerer S; National Tuberculosis Genotyping and Surveillance Network Work Group.
Molecular epidemiology of tuberculosis in a sentinel surveillance population.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1197--209.
Blumberg HM, Watkins DL, Berschling JD, et al.
Preventing the nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis.
Ann Intern Med 1995; 122:658--63.
Grzybowski S, Barnett GD, Styblo K.
Contacts of cases of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Bull Int Union Tuberc 1975;50:90--106.
Shaw JB, Wynn-Williams N.
Infectivity of pulmonary tuberculosis in relation to sputum status.
Am Rev Tuberc 1954;69:724--32.
van Geuns HA, Meijer J, Styblo K.
Results of contact examination in Rotterdam, 1967--1969.
Bull Int Union Tuberc 1975;50:107--21.
Bailey WC, Gerald LB, Kimerling ME, et al.
Predictive model to identify positive tuberculosis skin test results during contact investigations.
JAMA 2002;287:996--1002.
Behr MA, Warren SA, Salamon H, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from patients smear-negative for acid-fast bacilli.
Lancet 1999;353(9151):444--9.
Stead WW, Lofgren JP, Warren E, Thomas C.
Tuberculosis as an endemic and nosocomial infection among the elderly in nursing homes.
N Engl J Med 1985;312:1483--7.
Stead WW, To T.
The significance of the tuberculin skin test in elderly persons.
Ann Intern Med 1987;107:837--42.
Small PM, Shafer RW, Hopewell PC, et al.
Exogenous reinfection with multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in patients with advanced HIV infection.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:1137--44.
Godfrey-Faussett P, Sonnenberg P, Shearer SC, et al.
Tuberculosis control and molecular epidemiology in a South African gold-mining community.
Lancet 2000;356(9235):1066--71.
Colditz GA, Brewer TF, Berkey CS, et al.
Efficacy of BCG vaccine in the prevention of tuberculosis.
Meta-analysis of the published literature.
JAMA 1994;271:698--702.
BCG: the challenge continues.
Scand J Infect Dis 2001;33:243--5.
Styblo K, Meijer J.
Impact of BCG vaccination programmes in children and young adults on the tuberculosis problem.
Tubercle 1976;57:17--43.
Aronson NE, Santosham M, Comstock GW, et al.
Long-term efficacy of BCG vaccine in American Indians and Alaska Natives: a 60-year follow-up study.
JAMA 2004;291:2086--91.
Sterne JA, Rodrigues LC, Guedes IN.
Does the efficacy of BCG decline with time since vaccination?
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:200--7.
Flynn JL, Chan J.
Tuberculosis: latency and reactivation.
Infect Immun 2001;69:4195--201.
Schluger NW.
Recent advances in our understanding of human host responses to tuberculosis.
Respir Res 2001;2:157--63.
Genetics and resistance to tuberculosis.
Could resistance be enhanced by genetic engineering?
Ann Intern Med 1992;116:937--41.
Sousa AO, Salem JI, Lee FK, et al.
An epidemic of tuberculosis with a high rate of tuberculin anergy among a population previously unexposed to tuberculosis, the Yanomami Indians of the Brazilian Amazon.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1997;94:13227--32.
Boom WH, Canaday DH, Fulton SA, Gehring AJ, Rojas RE, Torres M.
Human immunity to M.
tuberculosis: T cell subsets and antigen processing.
Tuberculosis (Edinb) 2003;83:98--106.
Nardell EA, Keegan J, Cheney SA, Etkind SC.
Airborne infection.
Theoretical limits of protection achievable by building ventilation.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;144:302--6.
Risk of travel-associated tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1393--6.
Houk VN, Baker JH, Sorensen K, Kent DC.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis infection in a closed environment.
Arch Environ Health 1968;16:26--35.
Houk VH, Kent DC, Baker JH, Sorensen K, Hanzel GD.
The Byrd study.
In-depth analysis of a micro-outbreak of tuberculosis in a closed environment.
Arch Environ Health 1968;16:4--6.
Suzuki S, Nakabayashi K, Ohkouchi H, et al.
Nihon Kyobu Shikkan Gakkai Zasshi 1997;35:61--6.
World Health Organization.
Tuberculosis and air travel: guidelines for prevention and control.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1998.
Exposure of passengers and flight crew to Mycobacterium tuberculosis on commercial aircraft, 1992--1995.
MMWR 1995; 44:137--40.
Kato-Maeda M, Bifani PJ, Kreiswirth BN, Small PM.
The nature and consequence of genetic variability within Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
J Clin Invest 2001;107:533--7.
Barnes PF, Cave MD.
Molecular epidemiology of tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 2003;349:1149--56.
Bifani PJ, Mathema B, Liu Z, et al.
Identification of a W variant outbreak of Mycobacterium tuberculosis via population-based molecular epidemiology.
JAMA 1999;282:2321--7.
Munsiff SS, Nivin B, Sacajiu G, Mathema B, Bifani P, Kreiswirth BN.
Persistence of a highly resistant strain of tuberculosis in New York City during 1990--1999.
J Infect Dis 2003;188:356--63.
Zhang M, Gong J, Yang Z, Samten B, Cave MD, Barnes PF.
Enhanced capacity of a widespread strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to grow in human macrophages.
J Infect Dis 1999;179:1213--7.
Middlebrook G, Cohn ML.
Some observations on the pathogenicity of isoniazid-resistant variants of tubercle bacilli.
Science 1953;118 (3063):297--9.
Burgos M, DeRiemer K, Small PM, Hopewell PC, Daley CL.
Effect of drug resistance on the generation of secondary cases of tuberculosis.
J Infect Dis 2003;188:1878--84.
van Soolingen D, Borgdorff MW, de Haas PE, et al.
Molecular epidemiology of tuberculosis in the Netherlands: a nationwide study from 1993 through 1997.
J Infect Dis 1999;180:726--36.
Snider DE Jr., Kelly GD, Cauthen GM, Thompson NJ, Kilburn JO.
Infection and disease among contacts of tuberculosis cases with drug-resistant and drug-susceptible bacilli.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1985; 132:125--32.
Frieden TR, Sherman LF, Maw KL, et al.
A multi-institutional outbreak of highly drug-resistant tuberculosis: epidemiology and clinical outcomes.
JAMA 1996;276:1229--35.
Kamat SR, Dawson JJ, Devadatta S, et al.
A controlled study of the influence of segregation of tuberculous patients for one year on the attack rate of tuberculosis in a 5-year period in close family contacts in South India.
Bull World Health Organ 1966;34:517--32.
Gunnels JJ, Bates JH, Swindoll H.
Infectivity of sputum-positive tuberculous patients on chemotherapy.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1974; 109:323--30.
Brindle R, Odhiambo J, Mitchison D.
Serial counts of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in sputum as surrogate markers of the sterilising activity of rifampicin and pyrazinamide in treating pulmonary tuberculosis.
BMC Pulm Med 2001;1:2.
Loudon RG, Spohn SK.
Cough frequency and infectivity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1969;99:109--11.
Goodwin RA Jr.
Pulmonary tuberculosis.
In: Wyngaarden JB, Smith LH Jr., eds.
Cecil textbook of medicine.
Philadelphia, PA: W.B.
Saunders Company; 1982:1542--8.
Hopewell PC.
Mycobacterial diseases.
In: Murray JF, Nadel JA, eds.
Textbook of respiratory medicine.
Philadelphia, PA: W.B.
Saunders Company; 1988:856--915.
Jindani A, Aber VR, Edwards EA, Mitchison DA.
The early bactericidal activity of drugs in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1980;121:939--49.
Jindani A, Dore CJ, Mitchison DA.
Bactericidal and sterilizing activities of antituberculosis drugs during the first 14 days.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:1348--54.
Earnest MA, Sbarbaro JA.
Defining the issues: returning patients with tuberculosis to institutional settings.
Clin Infect Dis 1995;20:497--500.
Mazurek GH, LoBue PA, Daley CL, et al.
Comparison of a whole-blood interferon gamma assay with tuberculin skin testing for detecting latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
JAMA 2001;286:1740--7.
Guidelines for using the QuantiFERON-TB test for diagnosing latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2003;52 (No.
RR-2):15--8.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis.
A general review.
Bibl Tuberc 1970;26:28--106.
Boucot KR, Dillon ES, Cooper DA, Meier P, Richardson R.
Tuberculosis among diabetics: the Philadelphia survey.
Am Rev Tuberc 1952;65:1--50.
International Union Against Tuberculosis Committee of Prophylaxis.
Efficacy of various durations of isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: five years of follow-up in the IUAT trial.
Bull World Health Organ 1982;60:555--64.
Gardam MA, Keystone EC, Menzies R, et al.
Anti-tumour necrosis factor agents and tuberculosis risk: mechanisms of action and clinical management.
Lancet Infect Dis 2003;3:148--55.
Ellerin T, Rubin RH, Weinblatt ME.
Infections and anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha therapy.
Arthritis Rheum 2003;48:3013--22.
Tuberculosis associated with blocking agents against tumor necrosis factor-alpha---California, 2002--2003.
MMWR 2004; 53:683--6.
Case definitions for infectious conditions under public health surveillance.
MMWR 1997;46(No.
RR-10):1--55.
Surveillance Appendix I.
Tuberculosis Information Management System (TIMS) user's guide.
Version 1.10.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2001.
Cantwell MF, McKenna MT, McCray E, Onorato IM.
Tuberculosis and race/ethnicity in the United States: impact of socioeconomic status.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;157(4 Pt 1):1016--20.
McKenna MT, Hutton M, Cauthen G, Onorato IM.
The association between occupation and tuberculosis.
A population-based survey.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1996;154(3 Pt 1):587--93.
Panlilio AL, Burwen DR, Curtis AB, et al.
Tuberculin skin testing surveillance of health care personnel.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;35:219--27.
Zuber PL, McKenna MT, Binkin NJ, Onorato IM, Castro KG.
Long-term risk of tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States.
JAMA 1997;278:304--7.
McKenna MT, McCray E, Onorato I.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States, 1986 to 1993.
N Engl J Med 1995;332:1071--6.
Burt MR, Aron LY, Douglas T, Valente J, Lee E, Iwen B; the Urban Institute.
Homelessness: programs and the people they serve.
Findings of the National Survey of Homeless Assistance Providers and Clients.
Washington, DC: US Department of Housing and Urban Development; 1999.
Available at 
Moss AR, Hahn JA, Tulsky JP, Daley CL, Small PM, Hopewell PC.
Tuberculosis in the homeless.
A prospective study.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162(2 Pt 1):460--4.
Barnes PF, el-Hajj H, Preston-Martin S, et al.
Transmission of tuberculosis among the urban homeless.
JAMA 1996;275:305--7.
Curtis AB, Ridzon R, Novick LF, et al.
Analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis transmission patterns in a homeless shelter outbreak.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4:308--13.
Zolopa AR, Hahn JA, Gorter R, et al.
HIV and tuberculosis infection in San Francisco's homeless adults.
Prevalence and risk factors in a representative sample.
JAMA 1994;272:455--61.
Selwyn PA, Sckell BM, Alcabes P, Friedland GH, Klein RS, Schoenbaum EE.
High risk of active tuberculosis in HIV-infected drug users with cutaneous anergy.
JAMA 1992;268:504--9.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in correctional facilities: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-8):1--27.
Glaser JB, Greifinger RB.
Correctional health care: a public health opportunity.
Ann Intern Med 1993;118:139--45.
US Department of Justice.
Profile of jail inmates, 1996.
Washington, DC: US Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics; 1998.
Tuberculosis outbreaks in prison housing units for HIV-infected inmates---California, 1995--1996.
MMWR 1999; 48:79--82.
Jones TF, Craig AS, Valway SE, Woodley CL, Schaffner W.
Transmission of tuberculosis in a jail.
Ann Intern Med 1999;131:557--63.
Jones TF, Woodley CL, Fountain FF, Schaffner W.
Increased incidence of the outbreak strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the surrounding community after an outbreak in a jail.
South Med J 2003;96:155--7.
Cave MD, Eisenach KD, McDermott PF, Bates JH, Crawford JT.
IS6110: conservation of sequence in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and its utilization in DNA fingerprinting.
Mol Cell Probes 1991;5:73--80.
Etkind SC, Veen J.
Contact follow-up in high- and low-prevalence countries.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis.
A comprehensive international approach.
New York, New York: Marcel Dekker; 2000:275--89.
Small PM, Hopewell PC, Singh SP, et al.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis in San Francisco.
A population-based study using conventional and molecular methods.
N Engl J Med 1994;330:1703--9.
Pfyffer GE, Strassle A, Rose N, Wirth R, Brandli O, Shang H.
Transmission of tuberculosis in the metropolitan area of Zurich: a 3 year survey based on DNA fingerprinting.
Eur Respir J 1998;11:804--8.
van Deutekom H, Gerritsen JJ, van Soolingen D, van Ameijden EJ, van Embden JD, Coutinho RA.
A molecular epidemiological approach to studying the transmission of tuberculosis in Amsterdam.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:1071--7.
Yaganehdoost A, Graviss EA, Ross MW, et al.
Complex transmission dynamics of clonally related virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis associated with barhopping by predominantly human immunodeficiency virus-positive gay men.
J Infect Dis 1999;180:1245--51.
Tabet SR, Goldbaum GM, Hooton TM, Eisenach KD, Cave MD, Nolan CM.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis detecting a community-based tuberculosis outbreak among persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
J Infect Dis 1994; 169:189--92.
Daley CL, Small PM, Schecter GF, et al.
An outbreak of tuberculosis with accelerated progression among persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
An analysis using restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:231--5.
Leonhardt KK, Gentile F, Gilbert BP, Aiken M.
A cluster of tuberculosis among crack house contacts in San Mateo County, California.
Am J Public Health 1994;84:1834--6.
March F, Coll P, Guerrero RA, Busquets E, Cayla JA, Prats G.
Predictors of tuberculosis transmission in prisons: an analysis using conventional and molecular methods.
AIDS 2000;14:525--35.
Mohle-Boetani JC, Miguelino V, Dewsnup DH, et al.
Tuberculosis outbreak in a housing unit for human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients in a correctional facility: transmission risk factors and effective outbreak control.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:668--76.
Mangura BT, Napolitano EC, Passannante MR, McDonald RJ, Reichman LB.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis miniepidemic in a church gospel choir.
Chest 1998;113:234--7.
Jereb JA, Burwen DR, Dooley SW, et al.
Nosocomial outbreak of tuberculosis in a renal transplant unit: application of a new technique for restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates.
J Infect Dis 1993;168:1219--24.
Johnson KR, Braden CR, Cairns KL, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from medical waste.
JAMA 2000;284:1683--8.
Agerton T, Valway S, Gore B, et al.
Transmission of a highly drug-resistant strain (strain W1) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Community outbreak and nosocomial transmission via a contaminated bronchoscope.
JAMA 1997;278:1073--7.
Michele TM, Cronin WA, Graham NM, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by a fiberoptic bronchoscope.
Identification by DNA fingerprinting.
JAMA 1997;278:1093--5.
Small PM, Fujiwara PI.
Management of tuberculosis in the United States.
N Engl J Med 2001;345:189--200.
Genewein A, Telenti A, Bernasconi C, et al.
Molecular approach to identifying route of transmission of tuberculosis in the community.
Lancet 1993;342(8875):841--4.
Hernandez-Garduno E, Kunimoto D, Wang L, et al.
Predictors of clustering of tuberculosis in Greater Vancouver: a molecular epidemiologic study.
CMAJ 2002;167:349--52.
Barnes PF, Yang Z, Preston-Martin S, et al.
Patterns of tuberculosis transmission in Central Los Angeles.
JAMA 1997;278:1159--63.
Alland D, Kalkut GE, Moss AR, et al.
Transmission of tuberculosis in New York City.
An analysis by DNA fingerprinting and conventional epidemiologic methods.
N Engl J Med 1994;330:1710--6.
Chin DP, DeRiemer K, Small PM, et al.
Differences in contributing factors to tuberculosis incidence in U.S.-born and foreign-born persons.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;158:1797--803.
Jasmer RM, Hahn JA, Small PM, et al.
A molecular epidemiologic analysis of tuberculosis trends in San Francisco, 1991--1997.
Ann Intern Med 1999;130:971--8.
Geng E, Kreiswirth B, Driver C, et al.
Changes in the transmission of tuberculosis in New York City from 1990 to 1999.
N Engl J Med 2002;346:1453--8.
Bandera A, Gori A, Catozzi L, et al.
Molecular epidemiology study of exogenous reinfection in an area with a low incidence of tuberculosis.
J Clin Microbiol 2001;39:2213--8.
van Rie A, Warren R, Richardson M, et al.
Exogenous reinfection as a cause of recurrent tuberculosis after curative treatment.
N Engl J Med 1999;341:1174--9.
Maurer JR, Desmond EP, Lesser MD, Jones WD Jr.
False-positive cultures of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Chest 1984;86:439--43.
Burman WJ, Reves RR.
Review of false-positive cultures for Mycobacterium tuberculosis and recommendations for avoiding unnecessary treatment.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;31:1390--5.
Bruchfeld J, Aderaye G, Palme IB, Bjorvatn B, Kallenius G, Lindquist L.
Sputum concentration improves diagnosis of tuberculosis in a setting with a high prevalence of HIV.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 2000;94:677--80.
Small PM, McClenny NB, Singh SP, Schoolnik GK, Tompkins LS, Mickelsen PA.
Molecular strain typing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to confirm cross-contamination in the mycobacteriology laboratory and modification of procedures to minimize occurrence of false-positive cultures.
J Clin Microbiol 1993;31:1677--82.
Burman WJ, Stone BL, Reves RR, et al.
The incidence of false-positive cultures for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997;155:321--6.
Jasmer RM, Roemer M, Hamilton J, et al.
A prospective, multicenter study of laboratory cross-contamination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis cultures.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1260--3.
New CDC program for rapid genotyping of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates.
MMWR 2005;54:47.
National Tuberculosis Controllers Association, CDC Advisory Group on Tuberculosis Genotyping.
Guide to the application of genotyping to tuberculosis prevention and control.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Northrup JM, Miller AC, Nardell E, et al.
Estimated costs of false laboratory diagnoses of tuberculosis in three patients.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1264--70.
McNabb SJ, Braden CR, Navin TR.
DNA fingerprinting of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: lessons learned and implications for the future.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1314--9.
Kimerling ME, Benjamin WH, Lok KH, Curtis G, Dunlap NE.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism screening of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates: population surveillance for targeting disease transmission in a community.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998; 2:655--62.
Dobbs KG, Lok KH, Bruce F, Mulcahy D, Benjamin WH, Dunlap NE.
Value of Mycobacterium tuberculosis fingerprinting as a tool in a rural state surveillance program.
Chest 2001;120:1877--82.
Kong PM, Tapy J, Calixto P, et al.
Skin-test screening and tuberculosis transmission among the homeless.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1280--4.
Miller AC, Sharnprapai S, Suruki R, et al.
Impact of genotyping of Mycobacterium tuberculosis on public health practice in Massachusetts.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1285--9.
The role of the public health department in tuberculosis.
Med Clin North Am 1993;77:1303--14.
Dooley SW, Villarino ME, Lawrence M, et al.
Nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis in a hospital unit for HIV-infected patients.
JAMA 1992;267:2632--4.
Cowan LS, Crawford JT.
Genotype analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from a sentinel surveillance population.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1294--302.
Bock NN, Mallory JP, Mobley N, DeVoe B, Taylor BB.
Outbreak of tuberculosis associated with a floating card game in the rural south: lessons for tuberculosis contact investigations.
Clin Infect Dis 1998;27:1221--6.
Washko R, Robinson E, Fehrs LJ, Frieden TR.
Tuberculosis transmission in a high school choir.
J Sch Health 1998;68:256--9.
Comstock GW, Woolpert SF, Livesay VT.
Tuberculosis studies in Muscogee County, Georgia.
Twenty-year evaluation of a community trial of BCG vaccination.
Public Health Rep 1976;91:276--80.
Comstock GW, Livesay VT, Woolpert SF.
Evaluation of BCG vaccination among Puerto Rican children.
Am J Public Health 1974;64:283--91.
What does tuberculin reactivity after bacille Calmette-Guerin vaccination tell us?
Clin Infect Dis 2000;31 Suppl 3:S71--4.
Ridzon R, Kent JH, Valway S, et al.
Outbreak of drug-resistant tuberculosis with second-generation transmission in a high school in California.
J Pediatr 1997;131:863--8.
Greenaway C, Menzies D, Fanning A, Grewal R, Yuan L, FitzGerald JM; Canadian Collaborative Group in Nosocomial Transmission of Tuberculosis.
Delay in diagnosis among hospitalized patients with active tuberculosis---predictors and outcomes.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002;165:927--33.
The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States: a joint statement by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-4):1--18.
Development of new vaccines for tuberculosis: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1998;47(No.
RR-13):1--6.
Peterson Tulsky J, Castle White M, Young JA, Meakin R, Moss AR.
Street talk: knowledge and attitudes about tuberculosis and tuberculosis control among homeless adults.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:528--33.
Liefooghe R, Michiels N, Habib S, Moran MB, De Muynck A.
Perception and social consequences of tuberculosis: a focus group study of tuberculosis patients in Sialkot, Pakistan.
Soc Sci Med 1995;41:1685--92.
Nair DM, George A, Chacko KT.
Tuberculosis in Bombay: new insights from poor urban patients.
Health Policy Plan 1997;12:77--85.
Bock NN, Metzger BS, Tapia JR, Blumberg HM.
A tuberculin screening and isoniazid preventive therapy program in an inner-city population.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159:295--300.
Schluger NW, Huberman R, Holzman R, Rom WN, Cohen DI.
Screening for infection and disease as a tuberculosis control measure among indigents in New York City, 1994--1997.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:281--6.
Shrestha-Kuwahara R, Wilce M, DeLuca N, Taylor Z.
Factors associated with identifying tuberculosis contacts.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7(12 Suppl 3):S510--6.
Rodger A, Jaffar S, Paynter S, Hayward A, Carless J, Maguire H.
Delay in the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, London, 1998--2000: analysis of surveillance data.
BMJ 2003;326(7395):909--10.
Allos BM, Genshelmer KF, Bloch AB, et al.
Management of an outbreak of tuberculosis in a small community.
Ann Intern Med 1996;125:114--7.
Kanaya AM, Glidden DV, Chambers HF.
Identifying pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with negative sputum smear results.
Chest 2001;120:349--55.
Curtis AB, McCray E, McKenna M, Onorato IM.
Completeness and timeliness of tuberculosis case reporting.
A multistate study.
Am J Prev Med 2001;20:108--12.
Frieden TR, Sterling T, Pablos-Mendez A, Kilburn JO, Cauthen GM, Dooley SW.
The emergence of drug-resistant tuberculosis in New York City.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:521--6.
Weis SE, Slocum PC, Blais FX, et al.
The effect of directly observed therapy on the rates of drug resistance and relapse in tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1994;330:1179--84.
Mitchison DA.
How drug resistance emerges as a result of poor compliance during short course chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:10--5.
Sumartojo E.
When tuberculosis treatment fails.
A social behavioral account of patient adherence.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1993;147:1311--20.
Chaulk CP, Moore-Rice K, Rizzo R, Chaisson RE.
Eleven years of community-based directly observed therapy for tuberculosis.
JAMA 1995;274:945--51.
Chaulk CP, Kazandjian VA.
Directly observed therapy for treatment completion of pulmonary tuberculosis: consensus statement of the Public Health Tuberculosis Guidelines Panel.
JAMA 1998;279:943--8.
Bloch AB, Snider DE Jr.
How much tuberculosis in children must we accept?
Am J Public Health 1986;76:14--5.
Lobato MN, Mohle-Boetani JC, Royce SE.
Missed opportunities for preventing tuberculosis among children younger than five years of age.
Pediatrics 2000;106:E75.
DeRiemer K, Daley CL, Reingold AL.
Preventing tuberculosis among HIV-infected persons: a survey of physicians' knowledge and practices.
Prev Med 1999;28:437--44.
Bloom BR, Murray CJ.
Tuberculosis: commentary on a reemergent killer.
Science 1992;257(5073):1055--64.
Snider DE Jr., Roper WL.
The new tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:703--5.
Hovell MF, Sipan CL, Blumberg EJ, et al.
Increasing Latino adolescents' adherence to treatment for latent tuberculosis infection: a controlled trial.
Am J Public Health 2003;93:1871--7.
Houston HR, Harada N, Makinodan T.
Development of a culturally sensitive educational intervention program to reduce the high incidence of tuberculosis among foreign-born Vietnamese.
Ethn Health 2002;7:255--65.
Morisky DE, Malotte CK, Ebin V, et al.
Behavioral interventions for the control of tuberculosis among adolescents.
Public Health Rep 2001;116:568--74.
Tokars JI, Rudnick JR, Kroc K, et al.
hospital mycobacteriology laboratories: status and comparison with state public health department laboratories.
J Clin Microbiol 1996;34:680--5.
Peterson LR, Hamilton JD, Baron EJ, et al.
Role of clinical microbiology laboratories in the management and control of infectious diseases and the delivery of health care.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;32:605--11.
Association of Public Health Laboratories.
The future of TB laboratory services: a framework for integration, collaboration and leadership.
Washington, DC: Association of Public Health Laboratories; 2004.
Core functions and capabilities of state public health laboratories: a report of the Association of Public Health Laboratories.
MMWR 2002;51(No.
RR-14):1--8.
Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Policy statement on consolidation of clinical microbiology laboratories.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;32:604.
Pascopella L, Kellam S, Ridderhof J, et al.
Laboratory reporting of tuberculosis test results and patient treatment initiation in California.
J Clin Microbiol 2004;42:4209--13.
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards.
Wayne, PA: National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards; 2003.
Reichman LB.
How to ensure the continued resurgence of tuberculosis.
Lancet 1996;347(8995):175--7.
The American Lung Association Conference on re-establishing control of tuberculosis in the United States.
Washington, DC, March 11--13, 1994.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1996;154:251--62.
Hopewell PC.
The baby and the bath water.
The case for retaining categorical services for tuberculosis control in a reformed health care system.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994;150:895.
Handler A, Issel M, Turnock B.
A conceptual framework to measure performance of the public health system.
Am J Public Health 2001;91:1235--9.
Binkin NJ, Vernon AA, Simone PM, et al.
Tuberculosis prevention and control activities in the United States: an overview of the organization of tuberculosis services.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:663--74.
HIPAA privacy rule and public health: guidance from CDC and the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
MMWR 2003;52 Suppl:1--20.
Tuberculosis control laws---United States, 1993: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1993;42(No.
RR-15):1--28.
Hale YM, Pfyffer GE, Salfinger M.
Laboratory diagnosis of mycobacterial infections: new tools and lessons learned.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:834--46.
Gostin LO, Burris S, Lazzarini Z.
The law and the public's health: a study of infectious disease law in the United States.
Columbia Law Rev 1999;99:59--128.
Goldberg SV, Wallace J, Jackson JC, Chaulk CP, Nolan CM.
Cultural case management of latent tuberculosis infection.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2004;8:76--82.
The public health workforce: key to public health infrastructure.
Am J Public Health 1999;89:660--1.
Brown CK, Roddy C; Joint Council of State and Local Health Officials.
Joint Council of State and Local Health Officials: workforce development---principles for action.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2001;7:55--9.
Jha AK, Perlin JB, Kizer KW, Dudley RA.
Effect of the transformation of the Veterans Affairs Health Care System on the quality of care.
N Engl J Med 2003;348:2218--27.
Bates DW, Gawande AA.
Improving safety with information technology.
N Engl J Med 2003;348:2526--34.
Framework for program evaluation in public health.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-11):1--40.
Final FY 2005 performance plan.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Available at 
Curry National Tuberculosis Center.
Quality improvement for TB case management: an online course.
San Francisco, CA: Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center; 2004.
Available at 
Case management: a nursing point of view.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2(9 Suppl 1):S53--6.
Taylor Z, Marks SM, Rios Burrows NM, Weis SE, Stricof RL, Miller B.
Causes and costs of hospitalization of tuberculosis patients in the United States.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4:931--9.
Liu Z, Shilkret KL, Finelli L.
Initial drug regimens for the treatment of tuberculosis: evaluation of physician prescribing practices in New Jersey, 1994 to 1995.
Chest 1998;113:1446--51.
Asch S, Leake B, Knowles L, Gelberg L.
Tuberculosis in homeless patients: potential for case finding in public emergency departments.
Ann Emerg Med 1998;32:144--7.
Sumartojo EM, Geiter LJ, Miller B, Hale BE.
Can physicians treat tuberculosis?
Report on a national survey of physician practices.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:2008--11.
Rao SN, Mookerjee AL, Obasanjo OO, Chaisson RE.
Errors in the treatment of tuberculosis in Baltimore.
Chest 2000;117:734--7.
LoBue PA, Moser K, Catanzaro A.
Management of tuberculosis in San Diego County: a survey of physicians' knowledge, attitudes and practices.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:933--8.
Uplekar M, Pathania V, Raviglione M.
Private practitioners and public health: weak links in tuberculosis control.
Lancet 2001;358(9285):912--6.
Ozuah PO, Ozuah TP, Stein RE, Burton W, Mulvihill M.
Evaluation of a risk assessment questionnaire used to target tuberculin skin testing in children.
JAMA 2001;285:451--3.
US Citizenship and Immigration Service.
2002 yearbook of immigration statistics.
Washington, DC: US Department of Homeland Security, US Citizenship and Immigration Service, Office of Immigration Statistics; 2003.
Available at 
Blum RN, Polish LB, Tapy JM, Catlin BJ, Cohn DL.
Results of screening for tuberculosis in foreign-born persons applying for adjustment of immigration status.
Chest 1993;103:1670--4.
Saraiya M, Cookson ST, Tribble P, et al.
Tuberculosis screening among foreign-born persons applying for permanent US residence.
Am J Public Health 2002;92:826--9.
Brown TM, Fee E.
"Palliatives will no longer do": the deep roots and continuing dynamic of community-oriented primary care.
Am J Public Health 2002;92:1711--2.
Sotir MJ, Parrott P, Metchock B, et al.
Tuberculosis in the inner city: impact of a continuing epidemic in the 1990s.
Clin Infect Dis 1999;29:1138--44.
Moss AR, Alland D, Telzak E, et al.
A city-wide outbreak of a multiple-drug-resistant strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in New York.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1997;1:115--121.
Institute of Medicine, Committee on Regulating Occupational Exposure to Tuberculosis.
In: Field MJ, ed.
Tuberculosis in the workplace.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 2001.
Blumberg HM.
tuberculosis infection control.
In: Reichman LB, Hershield E, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel-Dekker, Inc.; 2000:609--43.
O'Brien RJ, Nunn PP.
The need for new drugs against tuberculosis.
Obstacles, opportunities, and next steps.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;163:1055--8.
Perkins MD.
New diagnostic tools for tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4(12 Suppl 2):S182--8.
D'Lugoff MI, Jones W, Kub J, et al.
Tuberculosis screening in an at-risk immigrant Hispanic population in Baltimore city: an academic health center/local health department partnership.
J Cult Divers 2002;9:79--85.
Applying advances to the clinic and health care delivery: putting the strategies to work.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4 (2 Suppl 1):S41--4.
Bellin EY, Fletcher DD, Safyer SM.
Association of tuberculosis infection with increased time in or admission to the New York City jail system.
JAMA 1993;269:2228--31.
Nardell EA.
Tuberculosis in homeless, residential care facilities, prisons, nursing homes, and other close communities.
Semin Respir Infect 1989;4:206--15.
Hutton MD, Cauthen GM, Bloch AB.
Results of a 29-state survey of tuberculosis in nursing homes and correctional facilities.
Public Health Rep 1993;108:305--14.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Portillo CJ, Menendez E, Cruz E, Goldenson J.
Tuberculosis prevalence in an urban jail: 1994 and 1998.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:400--4.
Levy MH, Reyes H, Coninx R.
Overwhelming consumption in prisons: human rights and tuberculosis control.
Health Hum Rights 1999;4:166--91.
Lobato MN, Leary LS, Simone PM.
Treatment for latent TB in correctional facilities: a challenge for TB elimination.
Am J Prev Med 2003;24:249--53.
Tulsky JP, White MC, Dawson C, Hoynes TM, Goldenson J, Schecter G.
Screening for tuberculosis in jail and clinic follow-up after release.
Am J Public Health 1998;88:223--6.
White MC, Tulsky JP, Reilly P, McIntosh HW, Hoynes TM, Goldenson J.
A clinical trial of a financial incentive to go to the tuberculosis clinic for isoniazid after release from jail.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:506--12.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center.
Tuberculosis infection control plan template for jails.
San Francisco, CA: Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center; 2002.
Available at 
Broekmans JF, Migliori GB, Rieder HL, et al.; World Health Organization, International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association Working Group.
European framework for tuberculosis control and elimination in countries with a low incidence.
Recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO), International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (IUATLD) and Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association (KNCV) Working Group.
Eur Respir J 2002;19:765--75.
Mabey D, Peelin RW, Ustianowsk A, Perkin MD.
Tropical infectious diseases: diagnostics for the developing world.
Nat Rev Microbiol 2004;2:231--40.
Wheeler C, Berkley S.
Initial lessons from public-private partnerships in drug and vaccine development.
Bull World Health Organ 2001;79:728--34.
Gupta R, Kim JY, Espinal MA, et al.
Public health.
Responding to market failures in tuberculosis control.
Science 2001;293 (5532):1049--51.
Kumaresan J, Smith I, Arnold V, Evans P.
The global TB drug facility: innovative global procurement.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2004; 8:130--8.
Yamada S, Caballero J, Matsunaga DS, Agustin G, Magana M.
Attitudes regarding tuberculosis in immigrants from the Philippines to the United States.
Fam Med 1999;31:477--82.
Carey JW, Oxtoby MJ, Nguyen LP, Huynh V, Morgan M, Jeffery M.
Tuberculosis beliefs among recent Vietnamese refugees in New York State.
Public Health Rep 1997;112:66--72.
Bock NN, McGowan JE Jr., Blumberg HM.
Few opportunities found for tuberculosis prevention among the urban poor.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:124--9.
Miller LG, Asch SM, Yu EI, Knowles L, Gelberg L, Davidson P.
A population-based survey of tuberculosis symptoms: how atypical are atypical presentations?
Clin Infect Dis 2000;30:293--9.
Tattevin P, Casalino E, Fleury L, Egmann G, Ruel M, Bouvet E.
The validity of medical history, classic symptoms, and chest radiographs in predicting pulmonary tuberculosis: derivation of a pulmonary tuberculosis prediction model.
Chest 1999;115:1248--53.
Catanzaro A, Perry S, Clarridge JE, et al.
The role of clinical suspicion in evaluating a new diagnostic test for active tuberculosis: results of a multicenter prospective trial.
JAMA 2000;283:639--45.
Daley CL, Gotway MB, Jasmer RM.
Radiographic manifestations of tuberculosis: a primer for clinicians.
San Francisco, CA: Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center; 2003:1--30.
Cohen R, Muzaffar S, Capellan J, Azar H, Chinikamwala M.
The validity of classic symptoms and chest radiographic configuration in predicting pulmonary tuberculosis.
Chest 1996;109:420--3.
Scott B, Schmid M, Nettleman MD.
Early identification and isolation of inpatients at high risk for tuberculosis.
Arch Intern Med 1994;154:326--30.
Smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis in industrialized countries.
Chest 2001;120:330--4.
Perlman DC, el-Sadr WM, Nelson ET, et al.
Variation of chest radiographic patterns in pulmonary tuberculosis by degree of human immunodeficiency virus-related immunosuppression.
The Terry Beirn Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS (CPCRA).
The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG).
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:242--6.
Mandell LA, Bartlett JG, Dowell SF, File TM Jr., Musher DM, Whitney C; Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Update of practice guidelines for the management of community-acquired pneumonia in immunocompetent adults.
Clin Infect Dis 2003;37: 1405--33.
Dasgupta K, Schwartzman K, Marchand R, Tennenbaum TN, Brassard P, Menzies D.
Comparison of cost-effectiveness of tuberculosis screening of close contacts and foreign-born populations.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2079--86.
Sciortino S, Mohle-Boetani J, Royce SE, Will D, Chin DP.
B notifications and the detection of tuberculosis among foreign-born recent arrivals in California.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:778--85.
Zuber PL, Binkin NJ, Ignacio AC, et al.
Tuberculosis screening for immigrants and refugees.
Diagnostic outcomes in the state of Hawaii.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1996;154:151--5.
Recommendations for prevention and control of tuberculosis among foreign-born persons: report of the Working Group on Tuberculosis Among Foreign-Born Persons.
MMWR 1998;47 (No.
RR-16):1--29.
Nolan CM, Elarth AM, Barr H, Saeed AM, Risser DR.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a shelter for homeless men.
A description of its evolution and control.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;143:257--61.
Kimerling ME, Shakes CF, Carlisle R, Lok KH, Benjamin WH, Dunlap NE.
Spot sputum screening: evaluation of an intervention in two homeless shelters.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:613--9.
Screening for tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in populations at high risk.
Recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1995;44(No.
RR-11):19--34.
Puisis M, Feinglass J, Lidow E, Mansour M.
Radiographic screening for tuberculosis in a large urban county jail.
Public Health Rep 1996;111:330--4.
Jereb J, Etkind SC, Joglar OT, Moore M, Taylor Z.
Tuberculosis contact investigations: outcomes in selected areas of the United States, 1999.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7(12 Suppl 3):S384--90.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis.
A general review.
Bibl Tuberc 1970;26:28--106.
Nivin B, Nicholas P, Gayer M, Frieden TR, Fujiwara PI.
A continuing outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, with transmission in a hospital nursery.
Clin Infect Dis 1998;26:303--7.
Hennessey KA, Schulte JM, Valway SE, et al.
Using DNA fingerprinting to detect transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis among AIDS patients in two health-care facilities in Puerto Rico.
South Med J 2000;93:777--82.
Garcia-Garcia ML, Jimenez-Corona ME, Ponce-de-Leon A, et al.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis drug resistance in a suburban community in southern Mexico.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4(12 Suppl 2):S168--70.
Askew GL, Finelli L, Hutton M, et al.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis transmission from a pediatrician to patients.
Pediatrics 1997;100:19--23.
Kenyon TA, Valway SE, Ihle WW, Onorato IM, Castro KG.
Transmission of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis during a long airplane flight.
N Engl J Med 1996;334:933--8.
Crack cocaine use among persons with tuberculosis---Contra Costa County, California, 1987--1990.
MMWR 1991;40:485--9.
DiStasio AJ 2nd, Trump DH.
The investigation of a tuberculosis outbreak in the closed environment of a U.S.
Navy ship, 1987.
Mil Med 1990;155:347--51.
Wells CD, Zuber PL, Nolan CM, Binkin NJ, Goldberg SV.
Tuberculosis prevention among foreign-born persons in Seattle-King County, Washington.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997;156(2 Pt 1):573--7.
Goldman JM, Teale C, Cundall DB, Pearson SB.
Childhood tuberculosis in Leeds, 1982--90: social and ethnic factors and the role of the contact clinic in diagnosis.
Thorax 1994;49:184--5.
Mehta JB, Bentley S.
Prevention of tuberculosis in children: missed opportunities.
Am J Prev Med 1992;8:283--6.
Rubilar M, Brochwicz-Lewinski MJ, Anderson M, Leitch AG.
The outcome of contact procedures for tuberculosis in Edinburgh, Scotland 1982--1991.
Respir Med 1995;89:113--20.
Topley JM, Maher D, Mbewe LN.
Transmission of tuberculosis to contacts of sputum positive adults in Malawi.
Arch Dis Child 1996;74:140--3.
Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis---North Carolina.
MMWR 1987;35:785--7.
Contact tracing in tuberculosis.
In: Reichman L, Herschfield E, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc.; 1993:275--89.
Ong A, Creasman J, Hopewell PC, et al.
A molecular epidemiological assessment of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in San Francisco.
Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:25--31.
Reichler MR, Bur S, Reves R, et al.
Results of testing for human immunodeficiency virus infection among recent contacts of infectious tuberculosis cases in the United States.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7(12 Suppl 3):S471--8.
Revised guidelines for HIV counseling, testing, and referral.
MMWR 2001;50(No.
RR-19):1--57.
Long R, Houston S, Hershfield E; Canadian Tuberculosis Committee of Centre for Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, Population and Public Health Branch, Health Canada.
Recommendations for screening and prevention of tuberculosis in patients with HIV and for screening for HIV in patients with tuberculosis and their contacts.
CMAJ 2003;169:789--91.
California Department of Health Services, California Tuberculosis Controllers Association.
Joint guidelines for tuberculosis treatment and control in California.
Berkeley, CA: California Department of Health Services, California Tuberculosis Controllers Association; 1998.
Available at 
Guidelines for the investigation of contacts to infectious tuberculosis patients.
Atlanta, GA: National Tuberculosis Controllers Association; US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC.
In press 2005.
Microepidemics of tuberculosis: the stone-in-the-pond principle.
Tuber Lung Dis 1992;73:73--6.
The use of RFLP as a tool for tuberculosis control: utility or futility?
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4(12 Suppl 2):S134--8.
Fatal and severe liver injuries associated with rifampin and pyrazinamide for latent tuberculosis infection, and revisions in American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations---United States, 2001.
MMWR 2001;50:733--5.
American Thoracic Society.
Preventive treatment in tuberculosis; a statement by the Committee on Therapy.
American Thoracic Society.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1965;91:297--8.
Mitchell JR, Zimmerman HJ, Ishak KG, et al.
Isoniazid liver injury: clinical spectrum, pathology, and probable pathogenesis.
Ann Intern Med 1976;84:181--92.
Glassroth J, Bailey WC, Hopewell PC, Schecter G, Harden JW.
Why tuberculosis is not prevented.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1990;141 (5 Pt 1):1236--40.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis associated with failed completion of treatment for latent tuberculosis infection---Chickasaw County, Mississippi, June 1999--March 2002.
MMWR 2003;52:222--4.
Granich RM, Zuber PL, McMillan M, et al.
Tuberculosis among foreign-born residents of southern Florida, 1995.
Public Health Rep 1998;113:552--6.
Liu Z, Shilkret KL, Tranotti J, Freund CG, Finelli L.
Distinct trends in tuberculosis morbidity among foreign-born and US-born persons in New Jersey, 1986 through 1995.
Am J Public Health 1998; 88:1064--7.
Comment in: Horsburgh CR Jr.
What it takes to control tuberculosis.
Am J Public Health 1998;88:1015--6.
El Sahly HM, Adams GJ, Soini H, Teeter L, Musser JM, Graviss EA.
Epidemiologic differences between United States- and foreign-born tuberculosis patients in Houston, Texas.
J Infect Dis 2001;183:461--8.
Weis SE, Moonan PK, Pogoda JM, et al.
Tuberculosis in the foreign-born population of Tarrant county, Texas by immigration status.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:953--7.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545--50.
Perlman DC, Perkins MP, Solomon N, Kochems L, Des Jarlais DC, Paone D.
Tuberculosis screening at a syringe exchange program.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:862--3.
Nelson KR, Bui H, Samet JH.
Screening in special populations: a "case study" of recent Vietnamese immigrants.
Am J Med 1997; 102:435--40.
Pilote L, Tulsky JP, Zolopa AR, Hahn JA, Schecter GF, Moss AR.
Tuberculosis prophylaxis in the homeless.
A trial to improve adherence to referral.
Arch Intern Med 1996;156:161--5.
Kohn MR, Arden MR, Vasilakis J, Shenker IR.
Directly observed preventive therapy.
Turning the tide against tuberculosis.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 1996;150:727--9.
Chang S, Wheeler LS, Farrell KP.
Public health impact of targeted tuberculosis screening in public schools.
Am J Public Health 2002;92:1942--5.
Community-oriented primary care: a path to community development.
Am J Public Health 2002;92:1713--6.
Adverse event data and revised American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations against the use of rifampin and pyrazinamide for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---United States, 2003.
MMWR 2003;52:735--9.
Nolan RJ Jr.
Childhood tuberculosis in North Carolina: a study of the opportunities for intervention in the transmission of tuberculosis to children.
Am J Public Health 1986;76:26--30.
Al-Dossary FS, Ong LT, Correa AG, Starke JR.
Treatment of childhood tuberculosis with a six month directly observed regimen of only two weeks of daily therapy.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 2002;21:91--7.
HIV-related tuberculosis in a transgender network---Baltimore, Maryland, and New York City area, 1998--2000.
MMWR 2000;49: 317--20.
Increase in African immigrants and refugees with tuberculosis---Seattle-King County, Washington, 1998--2001.
MMWR 2002;51:882--3.
Erratum in: MMWR 2002;51:919.
Trends in tuberculosis morbidity---United States, 1992--2002.
MMWR 2003;52:217--22.
Racial disparities in tuberculosis---selected southeastern states, 1991--2002.
MMWR 2004;53:556--9.
Trends in tuberculosis---United States, 2004.
MMWR 2005;54:245--9.
Contact investigation: a practical approach to tuberculosis eradication.
Am J Public Health Nations Health 1963;53:1761--9.
Perry S, Starke JR.
Adherence to prescribed treatment and public health aspects of tuberculosis in children.
Semin Pediatr Infect Dis 1993;4:291--8.
Teixeira L, Perkins MD, Johnson JL, et al.
Infection and disease among household contacts of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001;5:321--8.
Schaaf HS, Van Rie A, Gie RP, et al.
Transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 2000;19:695--9.
George RH, Gully PR, Gill ON, Innes JA, Bakhshi SS, Connolly M.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a children's hospital.
J Hosp Infect 1986;8:129--42.
Weinstein JW, Barrett CR, Baltimore RS, Hierholzer WJ Jr.
Nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis from a hospital visitor on a pediatrics ward.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:232--4.
Aznar J, Safi H, Romero J, Alejo A, Gracia A, Palomares JC.
Nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis infection in pediatrics wards.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:44--8.
Munoz FM, Ong LT, Seavy D, Medina D, Correa A, Starke JR.
Tuberculosis among adult visitors of children with suspected tuberculosis and employees at a children's hospital.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 2002;23:568--72.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Tuberculosis.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2000 red book: report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2003:658.
Soren K, Saiman L, Irigoyen M, Gomez-Duarte C, Levison MJ, McMahon DJ.
Evaluation of household contacts of children with positive tuberculin skin tests.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1999;18:949--55.
Driver CR, Cordova IM, Munsiff SS.
Targeting tuberculosis testing: the yield of source case investigations for young children with reactive tuberculin skin tests.
Public Health Rep 2002;117:366--72.
Sullam PM, Slutkin G, Hopewell PC.
The benefits of evaluating close associates of child tuberculin reactors from a high prevalence group.
Am J Public Health 1986;76:1109--11.
Universal screening for tuberculosis infection.
School's out!
JAMA 1995;274:652--3.
Mohle-Boetani JC, Miller B, Halpern M, et al.
School-based screening for tuberculous infection.
A cost-benefit analysis.
JAMA 1995;274:613--9.
Lobato MN, Hopewell PC.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection after travel to or contact with visitors from countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;158:1871--5.
Froehlich H, Ackerson LM, Morozumi PA; Pediatric Tuberculosis Study Group of Kaiser Pernamente, Northern California.
Targeted testing of children for tuberculosis: validation of a risk assessment questionnaire.
Pediatrics 2001;107:E54.
Saiman L, San Gabriel P, Schulte J, Vargas MP, Kenyon T, Onorato I.
Risk factors for latent tuberculosis infection among children in New York City.
Pediatrics 2001;107:999--1003.
Koppaka VR, Harvey E, Mertz B, Johnson BA.
Risk factors associated with tuberculin skin test positivity among university students and the use of such factors in the development of a targeted screening program.
Clin Infect Dis 2003;36:599--607.
Binkin NJ, Zuber PL, Wells CD, Tipple MA, Castro KG.
Overseas screening for tuberculosis in immigrants and refugees to the United States: current status.
Clin Infect Dis 1996;23:1226--32.
US Department of Homeland Security.
Yearbook of Immigration Statistics, 2003.
Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office; 2004:16--9.
Available at 
Enarson D, Ashley MJ, Grzybowski S.
Tuberculosis in immigrants to Canada.
A study of present-day patterns in relation to immigration trends and birthplace.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1979;119:11--8.
Nolan CM, Elarth AM.
tuberculosis in a cohort of Southeast Asian Refugees.
A five-year surveillance study.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1988;137:805--9.
World Health Organization.
Global tuberculosis control---surveillance, planning, financing.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization.
Available at 
Sharnprapai S, Miller AC, Suruki R, et al.
Genotyping analyses of tuberculosis cases in U.S.- and foreign-born Massachusetts residents.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:1239--45.
Borgdorff MW, Behr MA, Nagelkerke NJ, Hopewell PC, Small PM.
Transmission of tuberculosis in San Francisco and its association with immigration and ethnicity.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2000;4:287--94.
US Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Estimates of the unauthorized immigrant population residing in the United States: 1990 to 2000.
Washington, DC: US Immigration and Naturalization Service, Office of Policy and Planning; 2003.
Available at 
Technical instructions for panel physicians.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2002.
Available at 
CDC's response to ending neglect: the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2002.
Available at 
Wells CD, Ocana M, Moser K, Bergmire-Sweat D, Mohle-Boetani JC, Binkin NJ.
A study of tuberculosis among foreign-born Hispanic persons in the U.S.
states bordering Mexico.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159:834--7.
Preventing and controlling tuberculosis along the U.S.-Mexico border.
MMWR 2001;50(No.
RR-1):1--27.
DeRiemer K, Chin DP, Schecter GF, Reingold AL.
Tuberculosis among immigrants and refugees.
Arch Intern Med 1998;158:753--60.
Zuber PL, Knowles LS, Binkin NJ, Tipple MA, Davidson PT.
Tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in Los Angeles County, 1992--1994.
Tubercle Lung Disease 1996;77:524--30.
Catlos EK, Cantwell MF, Bhatia G, Gedin S, Lewis J, Mohle-Boetani JC.
Public health interventions to encourage TB class A/B1/B2 immigrants to present for TB screening.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;158:1037--41.
Weis SE, Burgess G.
Tuberculosis control in a border state.
Treatment of the foreign-born.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 2002;16:59--71.
White MC, Gournis E, Kawamura M, Menendez E, Tulsky JP.
Effect of directly observed preventive therapy for latent tuberculosis infection in San Francisco.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:30--5.
Hennessey KA, Schulte JM, Cook L, Collins M, Onorato IM, Valway SE.
Tuberculin skin test screening practices among US colleges and universities.
JAMA 1998;280:2008--12.
Whalen CC, Nsubuga P, Okwera A, et al.
Impact of pulmonary tuberculosis on survival of HIV-infected adults: a prospective epidemiologic study in Uganda.
AIDS 2000;14:1219--28.
Havlir DV, Barnes PF.
Tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1999;340:367--73.
Bucher HC, Griffith LE, Guyatt GH, et al.
Isoniazid prophylaxis for tuberculosis in HIV infection: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
AIDS 1999;13:501--7.
Markowitz N, Hansen NI, Hopewell PC, et al.
Incidence of tuberculosis in the United States among HIV-infected persons.
The Pulmonary Complications of HIV Infection Study Group.
Ann Intern Med 1997;126:123--32.
Pape JW, Jean SS, Ho JL, Hafner A, Johnson WD Jr.
Effect of isoniazid prophylaxis on incidence of active tuberculosis and progression of HIV infection.
Lancet 1993;342(8866):268--72.
Mukadi YD, Maher D, Harries A.
Tuberculosis case fatality rates in high HIV prevalence populations in sub-Saharan Africa.
AIDS 2001;15:143--52.
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS).
UNAIDS 2002 report on the global HIV/AIDS epidemic; Geneva, Switzerland: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS; 2002.
Mocroft A, Vella S, Benfield TL, et al.
Changing patterns of mortality across Europe in patients infected with HIV-1.
EuroSIDA Study Group.
Lancet 1998;352(9142):1725--30.
Palella FJ Jr., Delaney KM, Moorman AC, et al.
Declining morbidity and mortality among patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection.
HIV Outpatient Study Investigators.
N Engl J Med 1998;338:853--60.
Detels R, Munoz A, McFarlane G, et al.
Effectiveness of potent antiretroviral therapy on time to AIDS and death in men with known HIV infection duration.
Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study Investigators.
JAMA 1998;280:1497--503.
Jones JL, Hanson DL, Dworkin MS, et al.
Surveillance for AIDS-defining opportunistic illnesses, 1992--1997.
In: CDC Surveillance Summaries, April 16, 1999.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
SS-2):1--22.
Barnes PF, Bloch AB, Davidson PT, Snider DE Jr.
Tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1991;324:1644--50.
Shafer RW, Edlin BR.
Tuberculosis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: perspective on the past decade.
Clin Infect Dis 1996;22:683--704.
Selwyn PA, Pumerantz AS, Durante A, et al.
Clinical predictors of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, bacterial pneumonia and tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients.
AIDS 1998;12:885--93.
Burman WJ, Jones BE.
Treatment of HIV-related tuberculosis in the era of effective antiretroviral therapy.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:7--12.
Narita M, Ashkin D, Hollender ES, Pitchenik AE.
Paradoxical worsening of tuberculosis following antiretroviral therapy in patients with AIDS.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1998;158:157--61.
Alwood K, Keruly J, Moore-Rice K, Stanton DL, Chaulk CP, Chaisson RE.
Effectiveness of supervised, intermittent therapy for tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients.
AIDS 1994;8:1103--8.
Espinal MA, Perez EN, Baez J, et al.
Infectiousness of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in HIV-1-infected patients with tuberculosis: a prospective study.
Lancet 2000;355(9200):275--80.
Carvalho AC, DeRiemer K, Nunes ZB, Martins M, Comelli M, Marinoni A.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to contacts of HIV-infected tuberculosis patients.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:2166--71.
Cruciani M, Malena M, Bosco O, Gatti G, Serpelloni G.
The impact of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 on infectiousness of tuberculosis: a meta-analysis.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1922--30.
Prevention and treatment of tuberculosis among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: principles of therapy and revised recommendations.
MMWR 1998;47(No.
RR-20):1--58.
Gordin F, Chaisson RE, Matts JP, et al.
Rifampin and pyrazinamide vs isoniazid for prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons: an international randomized trial.
Terry Beirn Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS, the Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group, the Pan American Health Organization, and the CDC Study Group.
JAMA 2000;283:1445--50.
Link B, Phelan J, Bresnahan M, Stueve A, Moore R, Susser E.
Lifetime and five-year prevalence of homelessness in the United States: new evidence on an old debate.
Am J Orthopsychiatry 1995;65:347--54.
Kearns AM, Barrett A, Marshall C, et al.
Epidemiology and molecular typing of an outbreak of tuberculosis in a hostel for homeless men.
J Clin Pathol 2000;53:122--4.
McElroy PD, Southwick KL, Fortenberry ER, et al.
Outbreak of tuberculosis among homeless persons coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus.
Clin Infect Dis 2003;36:1305--12.
Tuberculosis among the inner city poor.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2(9 Suppl 1):S41--5.
Brewer TF, Heymann SJ, Krumplitsch SM, Wilson ME, Colditz GA, Fineberg HV.
Strategies to decrease tuberculosis in US homeless populations: a computer simulation model.
JAMA 2001;286:834--42.
Burman WJ, Cohn DL, Rietmeijer CA, Judson FN, Sbarbaro JA, Reves RR.
Noncompliance with directly observed therapy for tuberculosis.
Epidemiology and effect on the outcome of treatment.
Chest 1997;111:1168--73.
Southern A, Premaratne N, English M, Balazs J, O'Sullivan D.
Tuberculosis among homeless people in London: an effective model of screening and treatment.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1999;3:1001--8.
Rendleman NJ.
Mandated tuberculosis screening in a community of homeless people.
Am J Prev Med 1999;17:108--13.
Marks SM, Taylor Z, Burrows NR, Qayad MG, Miller B.
Hospitalization of homeless persons with tuberculosis in the United States.
Am J Public Health 2000;90:435--8.
LoBue PA, Cass R, Lobo D, Moser K, Catanzaro A.
Development of housing programs to aid in the treatment of tuberculosis in homeless individuals: a pilot study.
Chest 1999;115:218--23.
Diez E, Claveria J, Serra T, et al.
Evaluation of a social health intervention among homeless tuberculosis patients.
Tuber Lung Dis 1996;77:420--4.
Singleton L, Turner M, Haskal R, Etkind S, Tricarico M, Nardell E.
Long-term hospitalization for tuberculosis control.
Experience with a medical-psychosocial inpatient unit.
JAMA 1997;278:838--42.
Tulsky JP, Pilote L, Hahn JA, et al.
Adherence to isoniazid prophylaxis in the homeless: a randomized controlled trial.
Arch Intern Med 2000;160:697--702.
Hammett TM, Harmon MP, Rhodes W.
The burden of infectious disease among inmates of and releasees from US correctional facilities, 1997.
Am J Public Health 2002;92:1789--94.
Steenland K, Levine AJ, Sieber K, Schulte P, Aziz D.
Incidence of tuberculosis infection among New York State prison employees.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:2012--4.
Valway SE, Richards SB, Kovacovich J, Greifinger RB, Crawford JT, Dooley SW.
Outbreak of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis in a New York State prison, 1991.
Am J Epidemiol 1994;140:113--22.
Probable transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in a correctional facility---California.
MMWR 1993;42:48--51.
Pelletier AR, DiFerdinando GT Jr., Greenberg AJ, et al.
Tuberculosis in a correctional facility.
Arch Intern Med 1993;153:2692--5.
Valway SE, Greifinger RB, Papania M, et al.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the New York State prison system, 1990--1991.
J Infect Dis 1994;170:151--6.
Outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis at a hospital---New York City, 1991.
MMWR 1993;42:427--34.
Bock NN, Reeves M, LaMarre M, DeVoe B.
Tuberculosis case detection in a state prison system.
Public Health Rep 1998;113:359--64.
Anderson KM, Keith EP, Norsted SW.
Tuberculosis screening in Washington state male correctional facilities.
Chest 1986;89:817--21.
Jones TF, Schaffner W.
Miniature chest radiograph screening for tuberculosis in jails: a cost-effectiveness analysis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:77--81.
Tuberculosis control in the New York State Department of Correctional Services: a case management approach.
Am J Infect Control 1998;26:534--7.
Tuberculosis contact investigation: two years of experience in New York City correctional facilities.
Am J Infect Control 1993;21:1--4.
Tuberculosis control in prisons.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2(9 Suppl 1):S57--63.
Alcabes P, Vossenas P, Cohen R, Braslow C, Michaels D, Zoloth S.
Compliance with isoniazid prophylaxis in jail.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;140:1194--7.
Tuberculosis prevention in drug-treatment centers and correctional facilities---selected U.S.
sites, 1990--1991.
MMWR 1993; 42:210--3.
Reichard AA, Lobato MN, Roberts CA, Bazerman LB, Hammett TM.
Assessment of tuberculosis screening and management practices of large jail systems.
Public Health Rep 2003;118:500--7.
Bock NN, Rogers T, Tapia JR, Herron GD, DeVoe B, Geiter LJ.
Acceptability of short-course rifampin and pyrazinamide treatment of latent tuberculosis infection among jail inmates.
Chest 2001;119:833--7.
MacIntyre CR, Kendig N, Kummer L, Birago S, Graham NM.
Impact of tuberculosis control measures and crowding on the incidence of tuberculous infection in Maryland prisons.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;24:1060--7.
Zaza S, Blumberg HM, Beck-Sague C, et al.
Nosocomial transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: role of health care workers in outbreak propagation.
J Infect Dis 1995;172:1542--9.
McGowan JE Jr.
Nosocomial tuberculosis: new progress in control and prevention.
Clin Infect Dis 1995;21:489--505.
Wenger PN, Otten J, Breeden A, Orfas D, Beck-Sague CM, Jarvis WR.
Control of nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis among healthcare workers and HIV-infected patients.
Lancet 1995;345(8944):235--40.
Maloney SA, Pearson ML, Gordon MT, Del Castillo R, Boyle JF, Jarvis WR.
Efficacy of control measures in preventing nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis to patients and health care workers.
Ann Intern Med 1995;122:90--5.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Am J Infect Control 1995;23:146--51.
Kenyon TA, Ridzon R, Luskin-Hawk R, et al.
A nosocomial outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Ann Intern Med 1997;127:32--6.
Blumberg HM, White N, Parrott P, Gordon W, Hunter M, Ray S.
False-positive tuberculin skin test results among health care workers.
JAMA 2000;283:2793.
Barrett-Connor E.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis in physicians.
JAMA 1979;241:33--8.
Fraser VJ, Kilo CM, Bailey TC, Medoff G, Dunagan WC.
Screening of physicians for tuberculosis.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1994;15:95--100.
Geiseler PJ, Nelson KE, Crispen RG.
Tuberculosis in physicians.
Compliance with preventive measures.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1987; 135:3--9.
Camins BC, Bock N, Watkins DL, Blumberg HM.
Acceptance of isoniazid preventive therapy by health care workers after tuberculin skin test conversion.
JAMA 1996;275:1013--5.
Shukla SJ, Warren DK, Woeltje KF, Gruber CA, Fraser VJ.
Factors associated with the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection among health-care workers at a midwestern teaching hospital.
Chest 2002;122:1609--14.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in facilities providing long-term care to the elderly: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1990;39 (No.
RR-10):7--20.
Ijaz K, Dillaha JA, Yang Z, Cave MD, Bates JH.
Unrecognized tuberculosis in a nursing home causing death with spread of tuberculosis to the community.
J Am Geriatr Soc 2002;50:1213--8.
Tuberculosis among elderly persons, as observed among nursing home residents.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2(9 Suppl 1):S64--70.
Ijaz K, Yang Z, Templeton G, Stead WW, Bates JH, Cave MD.
Persistence of a strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a prison system.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2004;8:994--1000.
Nardell EA.
Environmental infection control of tuberculosis.
Semin Respir Infect 2003;18:307--19.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center, Institutional Consultation Services, California Department of Health Services.
Tuberculosis in homeless shelters: reducing the risk through ventilation, filters, and UV.
San Francisco, CA: Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center; 2000 Available at 
Klovdahl AS, Graviss EA, Yaganehdoost A, et al.
Networks and tuberculosis: an undetected community outbreak involving public places.
Soc Sci Med 2001;52:681--94.
Ginsberg AM.
A proposed national strategy for tuberculosis vaccine development.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;30(Suppl 3):S233--42.
Framework for evaluating public health surveillance systems for early detection of outbreaks: recommendations from the CDC Working Group.
MMWR 2004;53(No.
RR-5):1--11.
* Wisconsin Department of Health and Family Services.
Control of Communicable Diseases.
Available at 
† Draft Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Health-Care Settings.
Federal Register 2004;69:70457--8.
§ Personal Protective Equipment, 29 C.F.R.
1910.134 (2003).
Terms and Abbreviations Used in This Report AAP American Academy of Pediatrics ACET Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis AFB acid-fast bacilli ATS American Thoracic Society BCG Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerín CIS U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service DGMQ CDC's Division of Global Migration and Quarantine DOT directly observed therapy EDs emergency departments FDA Food and Drug Administration HAART highly active antiretroviral therapy HCWs health-care workers HIPPA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIV human immunodeficiency virus IDSA Infectious Diseases Society of America IOM Institute of Medicine LTBI latent tuberculosis infection NAA nucleic acid amplification assay NCTA National Tuberculosis Controllers Association NIH National Institutes of Health NTCA National Tuberculosis Controllers Association NTGSN National Tuberculosis Genotyping and Surveillance Network NYC New York City PRP personal respiratory protection QFT QuantiFERON®-TB test QFT-G QFT gold test RFLP restriction fragment length polymorphism SES socioeconomic status TB tuberculosis TBGP Tuberculosis Genotyping Program TNF-a cycotine tumor necrosis factor alpha WHO World Health Organization Joint Subcommittee of the American Thoracic Society (ATS), the Infectious Diseases Society of America (ISDA), and CDC Membership List, November 2004 Chair: Charles M.
Nolan, MD, Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, Seattle, Washington (American Thoracic Society).
Co-chairs: Henry M.
Blumberg, MD, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia (Infectious Diseases Society of America), Zachary Taylor, MD, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia.
Members: John Bernardo, MD, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts; Patrick J.
Brennan, MD, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Nancy E.
Dunlap, MD, PhD, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama; Charles L.
Daley, MD, National Jewish Medical and Research Center, Denver, Colorado; Wafaa M.
El-Sadr, MD, Harlem Hospital and Columbia University, New York City, New York; Sue Etkind, MS, Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts; Mark FitzGerald, MD, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; James B.
McAuley, MD, Rush Medical College, Chicago, Illinois; Marisa Moore, MD, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia; Noreen L.
Qualls, DrPH, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia; Randall R.
Reves, MD, Denver Public Health, Denver, Colorado; Sarah E.
Royce, MD, California Department of Health Services, Berkeley, California; Max Salfinger, MD, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Jeffrey R.
Starke, MD, Texas Children's Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Wanda Walton, PhD, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia; Stephen E.
Weis, DO, University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas; and Jan Young, MS, California Department of Health Services, Berkeley, California.
Table 1 Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Box 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Box 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Figure 3 Return to top.
Box 3 Return to top.
Table 4 Return to top.
Figure 4 Return to top.
Box 4 Return to top.
Table 5 Return to top.
Box 5 Return to top.
Table 6 Return to top.
Box 6 Return to top.
Table 7 Return to top.
Box 7 Return to top.
Table 8 Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports September 17, 1999 / 48(RR11);1-40 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Framework for Program Evaluation in Public Health FOREWORD Health improvement is what public health professionals strive to achieve.
To reach this goal, we must devote our skill -- and our will -- to evaluating the effects of public health actions.
As the targets of public health actions have expanded beyond infectious diseases to include chronic diseases, violence, emerging pathogens, threats of bioterrorism, and the social contexts that influence health disparities, the task of evaluation has become more complex.
CDC developed the framework for program evaluation to ensure that amidst the complex transition in public health, we will remain accountable and committed to achieving measurable health outcomes.
By integrating the principles of this framework into all CDC program operations, we will stimulate innovation toward outcome improvement and be better positioned to detect program effects.
More efficient and timely detection of these effects will enhance our ability to translate findings into practice.
Guided by the steps and standards in the framework, our basic approach to program planning will also evolve.
Findings from prevention research will lead to program plans that are clearer and more logical; stronger partnerships will allow collaborators to focus on achieving common goals; integrated information systems will support more systematic measurement; and lessons learned from evaluations will be used more effectively to guide changes in public health strategies.
Publication of this framework also emphasizes CDC's continuing commitment to improving overall community health.
Because categorical strategies cannot succeed in isolation, public health professionals working across program areas must collaborate in evaluating their combined influence on health in the community.
Only then will we be able to realize and demonstrate the success of our vision -- healthy people in a healthy world through prevention.
Koplan, M.D., M.P.H.
Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Administrator, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry The following CDC staff members prepared this report: Robert L.
Milstein, M.P.H.
Office of Program Planning and Evaluation Office of the Director Scott F.
Wetterhall, M.D., M.P.H.
Chair, CDC Evaluation Working Group Office of Program Planning and Evaluation Office of the Director in collaboration with CDC Evaluation Working Group Members Gregory M.
Christenson, Ph.D.
Diane Dennis-Flagler Division of Health Education and Promotion Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Jeffrey R.
Harris, M.D.
Higgins, Ph.D.
Schachter, M.D., M.B.A.
Division of Prevention Research and Analytic Methods Nancy F.
Pegg, M.B.A.
Office of the Director Epidemiology Program Office Janet L.
Collins, Ph.D., M.S.
Division of Adolescent and School Health Diane O.
Dunet, M.P.A.
Division of Cancer Prevention and Control Aliki A.
Pappas, M.P.H., M.S.W.
Division of Oral Health National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Alison E.
Kelly, M.P.I.A.
Office of the Director National Center for Environmental Health Paul J.
Placek, Ph.D.
Office of Data Standards, Program Development, and Extramural Programs National Center for Health Statistics Michael Hennessy, Ph.D., M.P.H.
Division of STD Prevention Deborah L.
Rugg, Ph.D.
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention -- Intervention, Research, and Support National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention April J.
Bell, M.P.H.
Deppe, M.P.A.
Meltzer, Ph.D., M.S.
Wiley, M.P.H.
Office of the Director National Center for Infectious Diseases Thomas A.
Bartenfeld, III, Ph.D.
Office of the Director National Center for Injury Prevention and Control Roger H.
Bernier, Ph.D., M.P.H.
Office of the Director National Immunization Program Max R.
Office of the Director National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Galen E.
Cole, Ph.D., M.P.H.
Office of Communication Kathy Cahill, M.P.H.
Connie Carmack, M.P.H.
Cheal, Ph.D.
Office of Program Planning and Evaluation Hope S.
Moulton, Ph.D.
Office of the Director Eunice R.
Rosner, Ed.D., M.S.
Division of Laboratory System Public Health Practice Program Office William Kassler, M.D.
New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services Concord, New Hampshire Joyce J.
Neal, Ph.D., M.P.H.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists Atlanta, Georgia Additional CDC Contributors Office of the Director: Lynda S.
Doll, Ph.D., M.A.; Charles W.
Gollmar; Richard A.
Goodman, M.D., M.P.H.; Wilma G.
Johnson, M.S.P.H.; Marguerite Pappaioanou, D.V.M., Ph.D., M.P.V.M.; David J.
Sencer, M.D., M.P.H.
(Retired); Dixie E.
Snider, M.D., M.P.H.; Marjorie A.
Speers, Ph.D.; Lisa R.
Tylor; and Kelly O’Brien Yehl, M.P.A.
(Washington, D.C.).
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry: Peter J.
McCumiskey and Tim L.
Tinker, Dr.P.H., M.P.H.
Epidemiology Program Office: Jeanne L.
Alongi, M.P.H.
(Public Health Prevention Service); Peter A.
Briss, M.D.; Andrew L.
Dannenberg, M.D., M.P.H.; Daniel B.
Fishbein, M.D.; Dennis F.
Jarvis, M.P.H.; Mark L.
Messonnier, Ph.D., M.S; Bradford A.
Myers; Raul A.
Romaguera, D.M.D., M.P.H.; Steven B.
Thacker, M.D., M.Sc.; Benedict I.
Truman, M.D., M.P.H.; Katherine R.
Turner, M.P.H.
(Public Health Prevention Service); Jennifer L.
Wiley, M.H.S.E.
(Public Health Prevention Service); G.
David Williamson, Ph.D.; and Stephanie Zaza, M.D., M.P.H.
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion: Cynthia M.
Jorgensen, Dr.P.H.; Marshall W.
Kreuter, Ph.D., M.P.H.; R.
Brick Lancaster, M.A.; Imani Ma’at, Ed.D., Ed.M., M.C.P.; Elizabeth Majestic, M.S., M.P.H.; David V.
McQueen, Sc.D., M.A.; Diane M.
Narkunas, M.P.H.; Dearell R.
Niemeyer, M.P.H.; and Lori B.
de Ravello, M.P.H.
National Center for Environmental Health: Jami L.
Fraze, M.S.Ed.; Joan L.
Morrissey; William C.
Parra, M.S.; Judith R.
Qualters, Ph.D.; Michael J.
Sage, M.P.H.; Joseph B.
Smith; and Ronald R.
National Center for Health Statistics: Marjorie S.
Greenberg, M.A.
and Jennfier H.
Madans, Ph.D.
National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention: Huey-Tsyh Chen, Ph.D.; Janet C.
Cleveland, M.S.; Holly J.
Dixon; Janice P.
Hiland, M.A.; Richard A.
Jenkins, Ph.D.; Jill K.
Leslie; Mark N.
Lobato, M.D.; Kathleen M.
MacQueen, Ph.D., M.P.H.; and Noreen L.
Qualls, Dr.P.H., M.S.P.H.
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control: Christine M.
Branche, Ph.D.; Linda L.
Dahlberg, Ph.D.; and David A.
Sleet, Ph.D., M.A.
National Immunization Program: Susan Y.
Chu, Ph.D., M.S.P.H.
and Lance E.
Rodewald, M.D.
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health: Linda M.
Goldenhar, Ph.D.
and Travis Kubale, M.S.W.
Public Health Practice Program Office: Patricia Drehobl, M.P.H.; Michael T.
Hatcher, M.P.H.; Cheryl L Scott, M.D., M.P.H.; Catherine B.
Shoemaker, M.Ed.; Brian K.
Siegmund, M.S.Ed., M.S.; and Pomeroy Sinnock, Ph.D.
Consultants and Contributors Suzanne R.
Adair, Ph.D., M.A., Texas Department of Health, Austin, Texas; Mary Eden Avery, M.A., American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia; Ronald Bialek, M.P.P., Public Health Foundation, Washington, D.C.; Leonard Bickman, Ph.D., Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee; Thomas J.
Chapel, M.S., M.B.A., Macro International, Atlanta, Georgia; Don Compton, Ph.D., American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia; Ross F.
Conner, Ph.D., University of California Irvine, Irvine, California; David A.
Cotton, Ph.D., M.P.H., Macro International, Atlanta, Georgia; Bruce Davidson, M.D., M.P.H., National Tuberculosis Controllers Association, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Mary V.
Davis, Dr.P.H., Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine, Washington, D.C.; William W.
Dyal, DeKalb County Board of Health, Decatur, Georgia; Stephen B.
Fawcett, Ph.D., University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas; Jane Ford, National Association of City and County Health Officers, Lincoln, Nebraska; Nicholas Freudenberg, Dr.P.H., M.P.H., City University of New York, New York, New York; Jean Gearing, Ph.D., M.P.H., DeKalb County Board of Health, Decatur, Georgia; Kristine Gebbe, Dr.P.H., Columbia University, New York, New York; David N.
Gillmore, M.Ed., University of Texas School of Public Health, Houston, Texas; Rebecca M.
Glover Kudon, M.S.P.H., American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia; Lynne E.
Greabell, M.A.A., National Association of State and Territorial AIDS Directors, Washington, D.C.; Susan R.
Griffin, M.P.A., Independent Consultant, Austin, Texas; Sharon Lee Hammond, Ph.D., M.A., Westat, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia; Anne C.
Haddix, Ph.D., Rollins School of Pubic Health, Atlanta, Georgia; Susan E.
Hassig, Dr.P.H., Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana; Gary T.
Henry, Ph.D., M.A., Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia; James C.
Hersey, Ph.D., M.S., M.A., Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Richard E.
Hoffman, M.D., M.P.H., Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, Denver, Colorado; Robert C.
Hornik, Ph.D., M.A., Annenberg School of Communication, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Eric Juzenas, American Public Health Association, Washington, D.C.; Mark R.
Keegan, M.B.A., Association of State and Territorial Health Officers, Denver, Colorado; Jeffrey J.
Koshel, M.A., Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, D.C.; Amy K.
Lewis, M.P.H., North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, Raleigh, North Carolina; Jennifer M.
Lewis, M.Ed., Association of Schools of Public Health, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Hardy D.
Loe, Jr., M.D., M.P.H., University of Texas School of Public Health, Houston, Texas; Anna Marsh, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, Washington, D.C.; Pamela Mathison, M.A., Texas Department of Health, Austin, Texas; Dennis McBride, Ph.D., University of Washington, Seattle, Washington; Kathleen R.
Miner, Ph.D., M.P.H., Rollins School of Public Health, Atlanta, Georgia; April J.
Montgomery, M.H.A., Colorado Department of Health, Denver, Colorado; Genevieve A.
Nagy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas; Dennis P.
Murphy, M.A., National Coalition of STD Directors, Albany, New York; Patricia P.
Nichols, M.S., Michigan Department of Education, Lansing, Michigan; Mary Odell Butler, Ph.D., M.A., Battelle, Arlington, Virginia; Carol Pitts, Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, D.C.; Hallie Preskill, Ph.D., University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carol Roddy, Public Health Service, Washington, D.C.; Ken Duane Runkle, M.A., Illinois Department of Public Health, Springfield, Illinois; James R.
Sanders, Ph.D., M.S.Ed., Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, Michigan; Linda M.
Scarpetta, M.P.H., Michigan Department of Community Health, Lansing, Michigan; Mark V.
Schrader, M.P.A., Georgia Human Resources Department, Atlanta, Georgia; Leonard M.
Schwartz, M.A., Michigan Department of Community Health, Lansing, Michigan; Harvey A.
Schwartz, Ph.D., M.B.A., M.S., M.Ph., Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, Washington, D.C.; William A.
Smith, Ed.D., Academy for Educational Development, Washington, D.C.; Edith M.
Sternberg, M.P.H., Illinois Department of Health, Springfield, Illinois; Susan Toal, M.P.H., Independent Consultant, Atlanta, Georgia; Juliana van Olphen, M.P.H., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Paul J.
Wiesner, M.D., DeKalb County Board of Health, Decatur, Georgia; Joseph S.
Wholey, Ph.D., University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California; Alice Wojciak, Association of Schools of Public Health, Washington, D.C.; and Robert K.
Yin, Ph.D., Cosmos Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland.
Framework for Program Evaluation in Public Health Summary Effective program evaluation is a systematic way to improve and account for public health actions by involving procedures that are useful, feasible, ethical, and accurate.
The framework guides public health professionals in their use of program evaluation.
It is a practical, nonprescriptive tool, designed to summarize and organize essential elements of program evaluation.
The framework comprises steps in program evaluation practice and standards for effective program evaluation.
Adhering to the steps and standards of this framework will allow an understanding of each program's context and will improve how program evaluations are conceived and conducted.
Furthermore, the framework encourages an approach to evaluation that is integrated with routine program operations.
The emphasis is on practical, ongoing evaluation strategies that involve all program stakeholders, not just evaluation experts.
Understanding and applying the elements of this framework can be a driving force for planning effective public health strategies, improving existing programs, and demonstrating the results of resource investments.
INTRODUCTION Program evaluation is an essential organizational practice in public health (1); however, it is not practiced consistently across program areas, nor is it sufficiently well-integrated into the day-to-day management of most programs.
Program evaluation is also necessary for fulfilling CDC's operating principles for guiding public health activities, which include a) using science as a basis for decision-making and public health action; b) expanding the quest for social equity through public health action; c) performing effectively as a service agency; d) making efforts outcome- oriented; and e) being accountable (2).
These operating principles imply several ways to improve how public health activities are planned and managed.
They underscore the need for programs to develop clear plans, inclusive partnerships, and feedback systems that allow learning and ongoing improvement to occur.
One way to ensure that new and existing programs honor these principles is for each program to conduct routine, practical evaluations that provide information for management and improve program effectiveness.
This report presents a framework for understanding program evaluation and facilitating integration of evaluation throughout the public health system.
The purposes of this report are to summarize the essential elements of program evaluation; provide a framework for conducting effective program evaluations; clarify the steps in program evaluation; review standards for effective program evaluation; and address misconceptions regarding the purposes and methods of program evaluation.
BACKGROUND Evaluation has been defined as systematic investigation of the merit, worth, or significance of an object (3,4).
During the past three decades, the practice of evaluation has evolved as a discipline with new definitions, methods, approaches, and applications to diverse subjects and settings (4-7).
Despite these refinements, a basic organizational framework for program evaluation in public health practice had not been developed.
In May 1997, the CDC Director and executive staff recognized the need for such a framework and the need to combine evaluation with program management.
Further, the need for evaluation studies that demonstrate the relationship between program activities and prevention effectiveness was emphasized.
CDC convened an Evaluation Working Group, charged with developing a framework that summarizes and organizes the basic elements of program evaluation.
Procedures for Developing the Framework The Evaluation Working Group, with representatives from throughout CDC and in collaboration with state and local health officials, sought input from eight reference groups during its year-long information-gathering phase.
Contributors included evaluation experts, public health program managers and staff, state and local public health officials, nonfederal public health program directors, public health organization representatives and teachers, community-based researchers, U.S.
Public Health Service (PHS) agency representatives, and CDC staff.
In February 1998, the Working Group sponsored the Workshop To Develop a Framework for Evaluation in Public Health Practice.
Approximately 90 representatives participated.
In addition, the working group conducted interviews with approximately 250 persons, reviewed published and unpublished evaluation reports, consulted with stakeholders of various programs to apply the framework, and maintained a website to disseminate documents and receive comments.
In October 1998, a national distance-learning course featuring the framework was also conducted through CDC's Public Health Training Network (8).
The audience included approximately 10,000 professionals.
These information-sharing strategies provided the working group numerous opportunities for testing and refining the framework with public health practitioners.
Defining Key Concepts Throughout this report, the term program is used to describe the object of evaluation, which could be any organized public health action.
This definition is deliberately broad because the framework can be applied to almost any organized public health activity, including direct service interventions, community mobilization efforts, research initiatives, surveillance systems, policy development activities, outbreak investigations, laboratory diagnostics, communication campaigns, infrastructure-building projects, training and educational services, and administrative systems.
The additional terms defined in this report were chosen to establish a common evaluation vocabulary for public health professionals.
Integrating Evaluation with Routine Program Practice Evaluation can be tied to routine program operations when the emphasis is on practical, ongoing evaluation that involves all program staff and stakeholders, not just evaluation experts.
The practice of evaluation complements program management by gathering necessary information for improving and accounting for program effectiveness.
Public health professionals routinely have used evaluation processes when answering questions from concerned persons, consulting partners, making judgments based on feedback, and refining program operations (9).
These evaluation processes, though informal, are adequate for ongoing program assessment to guide small changes in program functions and objectives.
However, when the stakes of potential decisions or program changes increase (e.g., when deciding what services to offer in a national health promotion program), employing evaluation procedures that are explicit, formal, and justifiable becomes important (10).
ASSIGNING VALUE TO PROGRAM ACTIVITIES Questions regarding values, in contrast with those regarding facts, generally involve three interrelated issues: merit (i.e., quality), worth (i.e., cost-effectiveness), and significance (i.e., importance) (3).
If a program is judged to be of merit, other questions might arise regarding whether the program is worth its cost.
Also, questions can arise regarding whether even valuable programs contribute important differences.
Assigning value and making judgments regarding a program on the basis of evidence requires answering the following questions (3,4,11): What will be evaluated?
(That is, what is the program and in what context does it exist?) What aspects of the program will be considered when judging program performance?
What standards (i.e., type or level of performance) must be reached for the program to be considered successful?
What evidence will be used to indicate how the program has performed?
What conclusions regarding program performance are justified by comparing the available evidence to the selected standards?
How will the lessons learned from the inquiry be used to improve public health effectiveness?
These questions should be addressed at the beginning of a program and revisited throughout its implementation.
The framework described in this report provides a systematic approach for answering these questions.
FRAMEWORK FOR PROGRAM EVALUATION IN PUBLIC HEALTH Effective program evaluation is a systematic way to improve and account for public health actions by involving procedures that are useful, feasible, ethical, and accurate.
The recommended framework was developed to guide public health professionals in using program evaluation.
It is a practical, nonprescriptive tool, designed to summarize and organize the essential elements of program evaluation.
The framework comprises steps in evaluation practice and standards for effective evaluation (Figure 1).
The framework is composed of six steps that must be taken in any evaluation.
They are starting points for tailoring an evaluation to a particular public health effort at a particular time.
Because the steps are all interdependent, they might be encountered in a nonlinear sequence; however, an order exists for fulfilling each -- earlier steps provide the foundation for subsequent progress.
Thus, decisions regarding how to execute a step are iterative and should not be finalized until previous steps have been thoroughly addressed.
The steps are as follows: Step 1: Engage stakeholders.
Step 2: Describe the program.
Step 3: Focus the evaluation design.
Step 4: Gather credible evidence.
Step 5: Justify conclusions.
Step 6: Ensure use and share lessons learned.
Adhering to these six steps will facilitate an understanding of a program's context (e.g., the program's history, setting, and organization) and will improve how most evaluations are conceived and conducted.
The second element of the framework is a set of 30 standards for assessing the quality of evaluation activities, organized into the following four groups: Standard 1: utility, Standard 2: feasibility, Standard 3: propriety, and Standard 4: accuracy.
These standards, adopted from the Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation (12),* answer the question, "Will this evaluation be effective?" and are recommended as criteria for judging the quality of program evaluation efforts in public health.
The remainder of this report discusses each step, its subpoints, and the standards that govern effective program evaluation (Box 1).
Steps in Program Evaluation Step 1: Engaging Stakeholders The evaluation cycle begins by engaging stakeholders (i.e., the persons or organizations having an investment in what will be learned from an evaluation and what will be done with the knowledge).
Public health work involves partnerships; therefore, any assessment of a public health program requires considering the value systems of the partners.
Stakeholders must be engaged in the inquiry to ensure that their perspectives are understood.
When stakeholders are not engaged, an evaluation might not address important elements of a program's objectives, operations, and outcomes.
Therefore, evaluation findings might be ignored, criticized, or resisted because the evaluation did not address the stakeholders' concerns or values (12).
After becoming involved, stakeholders help to execute the other steps.
Identifying and engaging the following three principal groups of stakeholders are critical: those involved in program operations (e.g., sponsors, collaborators, coalition partners, funding officials, administrators, managers, and staff); those served or affected by the program (e.g., clients, family members, neighborhood organizations, academic institutions, elected officials, advocacy groups, professional associations, skeptics, opponents, and staff of related or competing organizations); and primary users of the evaluation.
Those Involved in Program Operations.
Persons or organizations involved in program operations have a stake in how evaluation activities are conducted because the program might be altered as a result of what is learned.
Although staff, funding officials, and partners work together on a program, they are not necessarily a single interest group.
Subgroups might hold different perspectives and follow alternative agendas; furthermore, because these stakeholders have a professional role in the program, they might perceive program evaluation as an effort to judge them personally.
Program evaluation is related to but must be distinguished from personnel evaluation, which operates under different standards (13).
Those Served or Affected by the Program.
Persons or organizations affected by the program, either directly (e.g., by receiving services) or indirectly (e.g., by benefitting from enhanced community assets), should be identified and engaged in the evaluation to the extent possible.
Although engaging supporters of a program is natural, individuals who are openly skeptical or antagonistic toward the program also might be important stakeholders to engage.
Opposition to a program might stem from differing values regarding what change is needed or how to achieve it.
Opening an evaluation to opposing perspectives and enlisting the help of program opponents in the inquiry might be prudent because these efforts can strengthen the evaluation's credibility.
Primary Users of the Evaluation.
Primary users of the evaluation are the specific persons who are in a position to do or decide something regarding the program.
In practice, primary users will be a subset of all stakeholders identified.
A successful evaluation will designate primary users early in its development and maintain frequent interaction with them so that the evaluation addresses their values and satisfies their unique information needs (7).
The scope and level of stakeholder involvement will vary for each program evaluation.
Various activities reflect the requirement to engage stakeholders (Box 2) (14).
For example, stakeholders can be directly involved in designing and conducting the evaluation.
Also, they can be kept informed regarding progress of the evaluation through periodic meetings, reports, and other means of communication.
Sharing power and resolving conflicts helps avoid overemphasis of values held by any specific stakeholder (15).
Occasionally, stakeholders might be inclined to use their involvement in an evaluation to sabotage, distort, or discredit the program.
Trust among stakeholders is essential; therefore, caution is required for preventing misuse of the evaluation process.
Step 2: Describing the Program Program descriptions convey the mission and objectives of the program being evaluated.
Descriptions should be sufficiently detailed to ensure understanding of program goals and strategies.
The description should discuss the program's capacity to effect change, its stage of development, and how it fits into the larger organization and community.
Program descriptions set the frame of reference for all subsequent decisions in an evaluation.
The description enables comparisons with similar programs and facilitates attempts to connect program components to their effects (12).
Moreover, stakeholders might have differing ideas regarding program goals and purposes.
Evaluations done without agreement on the program definition are likely to be of limited use.
Sometimes, negotiating with stakeholders to formulate a clear and logical description will bring benefits before data are available to evaluate program effectiveness (7).
Aspects to include in a program description are need, expected effects, activities, resources, stage of development, context, and logic model.
A statement of need describes the problem or opportunity that the program addresses and implies how the program will respond.
Important features for describing a program's need include a) the nature and magnitude of the problem or opportunity, b) which populations are affected, c) whether the need is changing, and d) in what manner the need is changing.
Expected Effects.
Descriptions of expectations convey what the program must accomplish to be considered successful (i.e., program effects).
For most programs, the effects unfold over time; therefore, the descriptions of expectations should be organized by time, ranging from specific (i.e., immediate) to broad (i.e., long-term) consequences.
A program's mission, goals, and objectives all represent varying levels of specificity regarding a program's expectations.
Also, forethought should be given to anticipate potential unintended consequences of the program.
Activities.
Describing program activities (i.e., what the program does to effect change) permits specific steps, strategies, or actions to be arrayed in logical sequence.
This demonstrates how each program activity relates to another and clarifies the program's hypothesized mechanism or theory of change (16,17).
Also, program activity descriptions should distinguish the activities that are the direct responsibility of the program from those that are conducted by related programs or partners (18).
External factors that might affect the program's success (e.g., secular trends in the community) should also be noted.
Resources include the time, talent, technology, equipment, information, money, and other assets available to conduct program activities.
Program resource descriptions should convey the amount and intensity of program services and highlight situations where a mismatch exists between desired activities and resources available to execute those activities.
In addition, economic evaluations require an understanding of all direct and indirect program inputs and costs (19-21).
Stage of Development.
Public health programs mature and change over time; therefore, a program's stage of development reflects its maturity.
Programs that have recently received initial authorization and funding will differ from those that have been operating continuously for a decade.
The changing maturity of program practice should be considered during the evaluation process (22).
A minimum of three stages of development must be recognized: planning, implementation, and effects.
During planning, program activities are untested, and the goal of evaluation is to refine plans.
During implementation, program activities are being field-tested and modified; the goal of evaluation is to characterize real, as opposed to ideal, program activities and to improve operations, perhaps by revising plans.
During the last stage, enough time has passed for the program's effects to emerge; the goal of evaluation is to identify and account for both intended and unintended effects.
Descriptions of the program's context should include the setting and environmental influences (e.g., history, geography, politics, social and economic conditions, and efforts of related or competing organizations) within which the program operates (6).
Understanding these environmental influences is required to design a context-sensitive evaluation and aid users in interpreting findings accurately and assessing the generalizability of the findings.
Logic Model.
A logic model describes the sequence of events for bringing about change by synthesizing the main program elements into a picture of how the program is supposed to work (23-35).
Often, this model is displayed in a flow chart, map, or table to portray the sequence of steps leading to program results (Figure 2).
One of the virtues of a logic model is its ability to summarize the program's overall mechanism of change by linking processes (e.g., laboratory diagnosis of disease) to eventual effects (e.g., reduced tuberculosis incidence).
The logic model can also display the infrastructure needed to support program operations.
Elements that are connected within a logic model might vary but generally include inputs (e.g., trained staff), activities (e.g., identification of cases), outputs (e.g., persons completing treatment), and results ranging from immediate (e.g., curing affected persons) to intermediate (e.g., reduction in tuberculosis rate) to long-term effects (e.g., improvement of population health status).
Creating a logic model allows stakeholders to clarify the program's strategies; therefore, the logic model improves and focuses program direction.
It also reveals assumptions concerning conditions for program effectiveness and provides a frame of reference for one or more evaluations of the program.
A detailed logic model can also strengthen claims of causality and be a basis for estimating the program's effect on endpoints that are not directly measured but are linked in a causal chain supported by prior research (35).
Families of logic models can be created to display a program at different levels of detail, from different perspectives, or for different audiences.
Program descriptions will vary for each evaluation, and various activities reflect the requirement to describe the program (e.g., using multiple sources of information to construct a well-rounded description) (Box 3).
The accuracy of a program description can be confirmed by consulting with diverse stakeholders, and reported descriptions of program practice can be checked against direct observation of activities in the field.
A narrow program description can be improved by addressing such factors as staff turnover, inadequate resources, political pressures, or strong community participation that might affect program performance.
Step 3: Focusing the Evaluation Design The evaluation must be focused to assess the issues of greatest concern to stakeholders while using time and resources as efficiently as possible (7,36,37).
Not all design options are equally well-suited to meeting the information needs of stakeholders.
After data collection begins, changing procedures might be difficult or impossible, even if better methods become obvious.
A thorough plan anticipates intended uses and creates an evaluation strategy with the greatest chance of being useful, feasible, ethical, and accurate.
Among the items to consider when focusing an evaluation are purpose, users, uses, questions, methods, and agreements.
Articulating an evaluation's purpose (i.e., intent) will prevent premature decision-making regarding how the evaluation should be conducted.
Characteristics of the program, particularly its stage of development and context, will influence the evaluation's purpose.
Public health evaluations have four general purposes.
The first is to gain insight, which happens, for example, when assessing the feasibility of an innovative approach to practice.
Knowledge from such an evaluation provides information concerning the practicality of a new approach, which can be used to design a program that will be tested for its effectiveness.
For a developing program, information from prior evaluations can provide the necessary insight to clarify how its activities should be designed to bring about expected changes.
A second purpose for program evaluation is to change practice, which is appropriate in the implementation stage when an established program seeks to describe what it has done and to what extent.
Such information can be used to better describe program processes, to improve how the program operates, and to fine-tune the overall program strategy.
Evaluations done for this purpose include efforts to improve the quality, effectiveness, or efficiency of program activities.
A third purpose for evaluation is to assess effects.
Evaluations done for this purpose examine the relationship between program activities and observed consequences.
This type of evaluation is appropriate for mature programs that can define what interventions were delivered to what proportion of the target population.
Knowing where to find potential effects can ensure that significant consequences are not overlooked.
One set of effects might arise from a direct cause-and-effect relationship to the program.
Where these exist, evidence can be found to attribute the effects exclusively to the program.
In addition, effects might arise from a causal process involving issues of contribution as well as attribution.
For example, if a program's activities are aligned with those of other programs operating in the same setting, certain effects (e.g., the creation of new laws or policies) cannot be attributed solely to one program or another.
In such situations, the goal for evaluation is to gather credible evidence that describes each program's contribution in the combined change effort.
Establishing accountability for program results is predicated on an ability to conduct evaluations that assess both of these kinds of effects.
A fourth purpose, which applies at any stage of program development, involves using the process of evaluation inquiry to affect those who participate in the inquiry.
The logic and systematic reflection required of stakeholders who participate in an evaluation can be a catalyst for self-directed change.
An evaluation can be initiated with the intent of generating a positive influence on stakeholders.
Such influences might be to supplement the program intervention (e.g., using a follow-up questionnaire to reinforce program messages); empower program participants (e.g., increasing a client's sense of control over program direction); promote staff development (e.g., teaching staff how to collect, analyze, and interpret evidence); contribute to organizational growth (e.g., clarifying how the program relates to the organization's mission); or facilitate social transformation (e.g., advancing a community's struggle for self-determination) (7,38-42).
Users are the specific persons that will receive evaluation findings.
Because intended users directly experience the consequences of inevitable design trade-offs, they should participate in choosing the evaluation focus (7).
User involvement is required for clarifying intended uses, prioritizing questions and methods, and preventing the evaluation from becoming misguided or irrelevant.
Uses are the specific ways in which information generated from the evaluation will be applied.
Several uses exist for program evaluation (Box 4).
Stating uses in vague terms that appeal to many stakeholders increases the chances the evaluation will not fully address anyone's needs.
Uses should be planned and prioritized with input from stakeholders and with regard for the program's stage of development and current context.
All uses must be linked to one or more specific users.
Questions establish boundaries for the evaluation by stating what aspects of the program will be addressed (5-7).
Creating evaluation questions encourages stakeholders to reveal what they believe the evaluation should answer.
Negotiating and prioritizing questions among stakeholders further refines a viable focus.
The question-development phase also might expose differing stakeholder opinions regarding the best unit of analysis.
Certain stakeholders might want to study how programs operate together as a system of interventions to effect change within a community.
Other stakeholders might have questions concerning the performance of a single program or a local project within a program.
Still others might want to concentrate on specific subcomponents or processes of a project.
Clear decisions regarding the questions and corresponding units of analysis are needed in subsequent steps of the evaluation to guide method selection and evidence gathering.
The methods for an evaluation are drawn from scientific research options, particularly those developed in the social, behavioral, and health sciences (5-7,43-48).
A classification of design types includes experimental, quasi-experimental, and observational designs (43,48).
No design is better than another under all circumstances.
Evaluation methods should be selected to provide the appropriate infor- mation to address stakeholders' questions (i.e., methods should be matched to the primary users, uses, and questions).
Experimental designs use random assignment to compare the effect of an intervention with otherwise equivalent groups (49).
Quasi-experimental methods compare nonequivalent groups (e.g., program participants versus those on a waiting list) or use multiple waves of data to set up a comparison (e.g., interrupted time series) (50,51).
Observational methods use comparisons within a group to explain unique features of its members (e.g., comparative case studies or cross-sectional surveys) (45,52-54).
The choice of design has implications for what will count as evidence, how that evidence will be gathered, and what kind of claims can be made (including the internal and external validity of conclusions) (55).
Also, methodologic decisions clarify how the evaluation will operate (e.g., to what extent program participants will be involved; how information sources will be selected; what data collection instruments will be used; who will collect the data; what data management systems will be needed; and what are the appropriate methods of analysis, synthesis, interpretation, and presentation).
Because each method option has its own bias and limitations, evaluations that mix methods are generally more effective (44,56-58).
During the course of an evaluation, methods might need to be revised or modified.
Also, circumstances that make a particular approach credible and useful can change.
For example, the evaluation's intended use can shift from improving a program's current activities to determining whether to expand program services to a new population group.
Thus, changing conditions might require alteration or iterative redesign of methods to keep the evaluation on track (22).
Agreements.
Agreements summarize the procedures and clarify roles and responsibilities among those who will execute the evaluation plan (6,12).
Agreements describe how the evaluation plan will be implemented by using available resources (e.g., money, personnel, time, and information) (36,37).
Agreements also state what safeguards are in place to protect human subjects and, where appropriate, what ethical (e.g., institutional review board) or administrative (e.g., paperwork reduction) approvals have been obtained (59,60).
Elements of an agreement include statements concerning the intended purpose, users, uses, questions, and methods, as well as a summary of the deliverables, time line, and budget.
The agreement can include all engaged stakeholders but, at a minimum, it must involve the primary users, any providers of financial or in-kind resources, and those persons who will conduct the evaluation and facilitate its use and dissemination.
The formality of an agreement might vary depending on existing stakeholder relationships.
An agreement might be a legal contract, a detailed protocol, or a memorandum of understanding.
Creating an explicit agreement verifies the mutual understanding needed for a successful evaluation.
It also provides a basis for modifying or renegotiating procedures if necessary.
Various activities reflect the requirement to focus the evaluation design (Box 5).
Both supporters and skeptics of the program could be consulted to ensure that the proposed evaluation questions are politically viable (i.e., responsive to the varied positions of interest groups).
A menu of potential evaluation uses appropriate for the program's stage of development and context could be circulated among stakeholders to determine which is most compelling.
Interviews could be held with specific intended users to better understand their information needs and time line for action.
Resource requirements could be reduced when users are willing to employ more timely but less precise evaluation methods.
Step 4: Gathering Credible Evidence An evaluation should strive to collect information that will convey a well-rounded picture of the program so that the information is seen as credible by the evaluation's primary users.
Information (i.e., evidence) should be perceived by stakeholders as believable and relevant for answering their questions.
Such decisions depend on the evaluation questions being posed and the motives for asking them.
For certain questions, a stakeholder's standard for credibility might require having the results of a controlled experiment; whereas for another question, a set of systematic observations (e.g., interactions between an outreach worker and community residents) would be the most credible.
Consulting specialists in evaluation methodology might be necessary in situations where concern for data quality is high or where serious consequences exist associated with making errors of inference (i.e., concluding that program effects exist when none do, concluding that no program effects exist when in fact they do, or attributing effects to a program that has not been adequately implemented) (61,62).
Having credible evidence strengthens evaluation judgments and the recommendations that follow from them.
Although all types of data have limitations, an evalu- ation's overall credibility can be improved by using multiple procedures for gathering, analyzing, and interpreting data.
Encouraging participation by stakeholders can also enhance perceived credibility.
When stakeholders are involved in defining and gathering data that they find credible, they will be more likely to accept the evaluation's conclusions and to act on its recommendations (7,38).
Aspects of evidence gathering that typically affect perceptions of credibility include indicators, sources, quality, quantity, and logistics.
Indicators.
Indicators define the program attributes that pertain to the evaluation's focus and questions (63-66).
Because indicators translate general concepts regarding the program, its context, and its expected effects into specific measures that can be interpreted, they provide a basis for collecting evidence that is valid and reliable for the evaluation's intended uses.
Indicators address criteria that will be used to judge the program; therefore, indicators reflect aspects of the program that are meaningful for monitoring (66-70).
Examples of indicators that can be defined and tracked include measures of program activities (e.g., the program's capacity to deliver services; the participation rate; levels of client satisfaction; the efficiency of resource use; and the amount of intervention exposure) and measures of program effects (e.g., changes in participant behavior, community norms, policies or practices, health status, quality of life, and the settings or environment around the program).
Defining too many indicators can detract from the evaluation's goals; however, multiple indicators are needed for tracking the implementation and effects of a program.
One approach to developing multiple indicators is based on the program logic model (developed in the second step of the evaluation).
The logic model can be used as a template to define a spectrum of indicators leading from program activities to expected effects (23,29-35).
For each step in the model, qualitative/quantitative indicators could be developed to suit the concept in question, the information available, and the planned data uses.
Relating indicators to the logic model allows the detection of small changes in performance faster than if a single outcome were the only measure used.
Lines of responsibility and accountability are also clarified through this approach because the measures are aligned with each step of the program strategy.
Further, this approach results in a set of broad-based measures that reveal how health outcomes are the consequence of intermediate effects of the program.
During an evaluation, indicators might need to be modified or new ones adopted.
Measuring program performance by tracking indicators is only part of an evaluation and must not be confused as a singular basis for decision-making.
Well-documented problems result from using performance indicators as a substitute for completing the evaluation process and reaching fully justified conclusions (66,67,74).
An indicator (e.g., a rising rate of disease) might be assumed to reflect a failing program when, in reality, the indicator might be influenced by changing conditions that are beyond the program's control.
Sources of evidence in an evaluation are the persons, documents, or observations that provide information for the inquiry (Box 6).
More than one source might be used to gather evidence for each indicator to be measured.
Selecting multiple sources provides an opportunity to include different perspectives regarding the program and thus enhances the evaluation's credibility.
An inside perspective might be understood from internal documents and comments from staff or program managers, whereas clients, neutral observers, or those who do not support the program might provide a different, but equally relevant perspective.
Mixing these and other perspectives provides a more comprehensive view of the program.
The criteria used for selecting sources should be stated clearly so that users and other stakeholders can interpret the evidence accurately and assess if it might be biased (45,75-77).
In addition, some sources are narrative in form and others are numeric.
The integration of qualitative and quantitative information can increase the chances that the evidence base will be balanced, thereby meeting the needs and expectations of diverse users (43,45,56,57,78-80).
Finally, in certain cases, separate evaluations might be selected as sources for conducting a larger synthesis evaluation (58,81,82).
Quality refers to the appropriateness and integrity of information used in an evaluation.
High-quality data are reliable, valid, and informative for their intended use.
Well-defined indicators enable easier collection of quality data.
Other factors affecting quality include instrument design, data-collection procedures, training of data collectors, source selection, coding, data management, and routine error checking.
Obtaining quality data will entail trade-offs (e.g., breadth versus depth) that should be negotiated among stakeholders.
Because all data have limitations, the intent of a practical evaluation is to strive for a level of quality that meets the stakeholders' threshold for credibility.
Quantity refers to the amount of evidence gathered in an evaluation.
The amount of information required should be estimated in advance, or where evolving processes are used, criteria should be set for deciding when to stop collecting data.
Quantity affects the potential confidence level or precision of the evaluation's conclusions.
It also partly determines whether the evaluation will have sufficient power to detect effects (83).
All evidence collected should have a clear, anticipated use.
Correspondingly, only a minimal burden should be placed on respondents for providing information.
Logistics encompass the methods, timing, and physical infrastructure for gathering and handling evidence.
Each technique selected for gathering evidence (Box 7) must be suited to the source(s), analysis plan, and strategy for communicating findings.
Persons and organizations also have cultural preferences that dictate acceptable ways of asking questions and collecting information, including who would be perceived as an appropriate person to ask the questions.
For example, some participants might be willing to discuss their health behavior with a stranger, whereas others are more at ease with someone they know.
The procedures for gathering evidence in an evaluation (Box 8) must be aligned with the cultural conditions in each setting of the project and scrutinized to ensure that the privacy and confidentiality of the information and sources are protected (59,60,84).
Step 5: Justifying Conclusions The evaluation conclusions are justified when they are linked to the evidence gathered and judged against agreed-upon values or standards set by the stakeholders.
Stakeholders must agree that conclusions are justified before they will use the evaluation results with confidence.
Justifying conclusions on the basis of evidence includes standards, analysis and synthesis, interpretation, judgment, and recommendations.
Standards reflect the values held by stakeholders, and those values provide the basis for forming judgments concerning program performance.
Using explicit standards distinguishes evaluation from other approaches to strategic management in which priorities are set without reference to explicit values.
In practice, when stakeholders articulate and negotiate their values, these become the standards for judging whether a given program's performance will, for example, be considered successful, adequate, or unsuccessful.
An array of value systems might serve as sources of norm-referenced or criterion-referenced standards (Box 9).
When operationalized, these standards establish a comparison by which the program can be judged (3,7,12).
Analysis and Synthesis.
Analysis and synthesis of an evaluation's findings might detect patterns in evidence, either by isolating important findings (analysis) or by combining sources of information to reach a larger understanding (synthesis).
Mixed method evaluations require the separate analysis of each evidence element and a synthesis of all sources for examining patterns of agreement, convergence, or complexity.
Deciphering facts from a body of evidence involves deciding how to organize, classify, interrelate, compare, and display information (7,85-87).
These decisions are guided by the questions being asked, the types of data available, and by input from stakeholders and primary users.
Interpretation.
Interpretation is the effort of figuring out what the findings mean and is part of the overall effort to understand the evidence gathered in an evaluation (88).
Uncovering facts regarding a program's performance is not sufficient to draw evaluative conclusions.
Evaluation evidence must be interpreted to determine the practical significance of what has been learned.
Interpretations draw on information and perspectives that stakeholders bring to the evaluation inquiry and can be strengthened through active participation or interaction.
Judgments are statements concerning the merit, worth, or significance of the program.
They are formed by comparing the findings and interpretations regarding the program against one or more selected standards.
Because multiple standards can be applied to a given program, stakeholders might reach different or even conflicting judgments.
For example, a program that increases its outreach by 10% from the previous year might be judged positively by program managers who are using the standard of improved performance over time.
However, community members might feel that despite improvements, a minimum threshold of access to services has not been reached.
Therefore, by using the standard of social equity, their judgment concerning program performance would be negative.
Conflicting claims regarding a program's quality, value, or importance often indicate that stakeholders are using different standards for judgment.
In the context of an evaluation, such disagreement can be a catalyst for clarifying relevant values and for negotiating the appropriate bases on which the program should be judged.
Recommendations.
Recommendations are actions for consideration resulting from the evaluation.
Forming recommendations is a distinct element of program evaluation that requires information beyond what is necessary to form judgments regarding program performance (3).
Knowing that a program is able to reduce the risk of disease does not translate necessarily into a recommendation to continue the effort, particularly when competing priorities or other effective alternatives exist.
Thus, recommendations for continuing, expanding, redesigning, or terminating a program are separate from judgments regarding a program's effectiveness.
Making recommendations requires information concerning the context, particularly the organizational context, in which programmatic decisions will be made (89).
Recommendations that lack sufficient evidence or those that are not aligned with stakeholders' values can undermine an evaluation's credibility.
By contrast, an evaluation can be strengthened by recommendations that anticipate the political sensitivities of intended users and highlight areas that users can control or influence (7).
Sharing draft recommendations, soliciting reactions from multiple stakeholders, and presenting options instead of directive advice increase the likelihood that recommendations will be relevant and well-received.
Various activities fulfill the requirement for justifying conclusions in an evaluation (Box 10).
Conclusions could be strengthened by a) summarizing the plausible mechanisms of change; b) delineating the temporal sequence between activities and effects; c) searching for alternative explanations and showing why they are unsupported by the evidence; and d) showing that the effects can be repeated.
When different but equally well-supported conclusions exist, each could be presented with a summary of its strengths and weaknesses.
Creative techniques (e.g., the Delphi process**) could be used to establish consensus among stakeholders when assigning value judgments (90).
Techniques for analyzing, synthesizing, and interpreting findings should be agreed on before data collection begins to ensure that all necessary evidence will be available.
Step 6: Ensuring Use and Sharing Lessons Learned Lessons learned in the course of an evaluation do not automatically translate into informed decision-making and appropriate action.
Deliberate effort is needed to ensure that the evaluation processes and findings are used and disseminated appropriately.
Preparing for use involves strategic thinking and continued vigilance, both of which begin in the earliest stages of stakeholder engagement and continue throughout the evaluation process.
Five elements are critical for ensuring use of an evaluation, including design, preparation, feedback, follow-up, and dissemination.
Design refers to how the evaluation's questions, methods, and overall processes are constructed.
As discussed in the third step of this framework, the design should be organized from the start to achieve intended uses by primary users.
Having a clear design that is focused on use helps persons who will conduct the evaluation to know precisely who will do what with the findings and who will benefit from being a part of the evaluation.
Furthermore, the process of creating a clear design will highlight ways that stakeholders, through their contributions, can enhance the relevance, credibility, and overall utility of the evaluation.
Preparation.
Preparation refers to the steps taken to rehearse eventual use of the evaluation findings.
The ability to translate new knowledge into appropriate action is a skill that can be strengthened through practice.
Building this skill can itself be a useful benefit of the evaluation (38,39,91).
Rehearsing how potential findings (particularly negative findings) might affect decision-making will prepare stakeholders for eventually using the evidence (92).
Primary users and other stakeholders could be given a set of hypothetical results and asked to explain what decisions or actions they would make on the basis of this new knowledge.
If they indicate that the evidence presented is incomplete and that no action would be taken, this is a sign that the planned evaluation should be modified.
Preparing for use also gives stakeholders time to explore positive and negative implications of potential results and time to identify options for program improvement.
Feedback is the communication that occurs among all parties to the evaluation.
Giving and receiving feedback creates an atmosphere of trust among stakeholders; it keeps an evaluation on track by letting those involved stay informed regarding how the evaluation is proceeding.
Primary users and other stakeholders have a right to comment on decisions that might affect the likelihood of obtaining useful information.
Stakeholder feedback is an integral part of evaluation, particularly for ensuring use.
Obtaining feedback can be encouraged by holding periodic discussions during each step of the evaluation process and routinely sharing interim findings, provisional interpretations, and draft reports.
Follow-up refers to the technical and emotional support that users need during the evaluation and after they receive evaluation findings.
Because of the effort required, reaching justified conclusions in an evaluation can seem like an end in itself; however, active follow-up might be necessary to remind intended users of their planned use.
Follow-up might also be required to prevent lessons learned from becoming lost or ignored in the process of making complex or politically sensitive decisions.
To guard against such oversight, someone involved in the evaluation should serve as an advocate for the evaluation's findings during the decision-making phase.
This type of advocacy increases appreciation of what was discovered and what actions are consistent with the findings.
Facilitating use of evaluation findings also carries with it the responsibility for preventing misuse (7,12,74,93,94).
Evaluation results are always bound by the context in which the evaluation was conducted.
However, certain stakeholders might be tempted to take results out of context or to use them for purposes other than those agreed on.
For instance, inappropriately generalizing the results from a single case study to make decisions that affect all sites in a national program would constitute misuse of the case study evaluation.
Similarly, stakeholders seeking to undermine a program might misuse results by overemphasizing negative findings without giving regard to the program's positive attributes.
Active follow-up might help prevent these and other forms of misuse by ensuring that evidence is not misinterpreted and is not applied to questions other than those that were the central focus of the evaluation.
Dissemination.
Dissemination is the process of communicating either the procedures or the lessons learned from an evaluation to relevant audiences in a timely, unbiased, and consistent fashion.
Although documentation of the evaluation is needed, a formal evaluation report is not always the best or even a necessary product.
Like other elements of the evaluation, the reporting strategy should be discussed in advance with intended users and other stakeholders.
Such consultation ensures that the information needs of relevant audiences will be met.
Planning effective communication also requires considering the timing, style, tone, message source, vehicle, and format of information products.
Regardless of how communications are constructed, the goal for dissemination is to achieve full disclosure and impartial reporting.
A checklist of items to consider when developing evaluation reports includes tailoring the report content for the audience, explaining the focus of the evaluation and its limitations, and listing both the strengths and weaknesses of the evaluation (Box 11) (6).
Additional Uses.
Additional uses for evaluation flow from the process of conducting the evaluation; these process uses have value and should be encouraged because they complement the uses of the evaluation findings (Box 12) (7,38,93,94).
Those persons who participate in an evaluation can experience profound changes in thinking and behavior.
In particular, when newcomers to evaluation begin to think as evaluators, fundamental shifts in perspective can occur.
Evaluation prompts staff to clarify their understanding of program goals.
This greater clarity allows staff to function cohesively as a team, focused on a common end (95).
Immersion in the logic, reasoning, and values of evaluation can lead to lasting impacts (e.g., basing decisions on systematic judgments instead of on unfounded assumptions) (7).
Additional process uses for evaluation includes defining indicators to discover what matters to decision makers and making outcomes matter by changing the structural reinforcements connected with outcome attainment (e.g., by paying outcome dividends to programs that save money through their prevention efforts) (96).
The benefits that arise from these and other process uses provide further rationale for initiating evaluation activities at the beginning of a program.
Standards for Effective Evaluation Public health professionals will recognize that the basic steps of the framework for program evaluation are part of their routine work.
In day-to-day public health practice, stakeholders are consulted; program goals are defined; guiding questions are stated; data are collected, analyzed, and interpreted; judgments are formed; and lessons are shared.
Although informal evaluation occurs through routine practice, standards exist to assess whether a set of evaluative activities are well-designed and working to their potential.
The Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation has developed program evaluation standards for this purpose (12).
These standards, designed to assess evaluations of educational programs, are also relevant for public health programs.
The program evaluation standards make conducting sound and fair evaluations practical.
The standards provide practical guidelines to follow when having to decide among evaluation options.
The standards help avoid creating an imbalanced evaluation (e.g., one that is accurate and feasible but not useful or one that would be useful and accurate but is infeasible).
Furthermore, the standards can be applied while planning an evaluation and throughout its implementation.
The Joint Committee is unequivocal in that, "the standards are guiding principles, not mechanical rules.
In the end, whether a given standard has been addressed adequately in a particular situation is a matter of judgment" (12).
In the Joint Committee's report, standards are grouped into the following four categories and include a total of 30 specific standards (Boxes 13-16).
As described in the report, each category has an associated list of guidelines and common errors, illustrated with applied case examples: utility, feasibility, propriety, and accuracy.
Standard 1: Utility Utility standards ensure that information needs of evaluation users are satisfied.
Seven utility standards (Box 13) address such items as identifying those who will be impacted by the evaluation, the amount and type of information collected, the values used in interpreting evaluation findings, and the clarity and timeliness of evaluation reports.
Standard 2: Feasibility Feasibility standards ensure that the evaluation is viable and pragmatic.
The three feasibility standards (Box 14) emphasize that the evaluation should employ practical, nondisruptive procedures; that the differing political interests of those involved should be anticipated and acknowledged; and that the use of resources in conducting the evaluation should be prudent and produce valuable findings.
Standard 3: Propriety Propriety standards ensure that the evaluation is ethical (i.e., conducted with regard for the rights and interests of those involved and effected).
Eight propriety standards (Box 15) address such items as developing protocols and other agreements for guiding the evaluation; protecting the welfare of human subjects; weighing and disclosing findings in a complete and balanced fashion; and addressing any conflicts of interest in an open and fair manner.
Standard 4: Accuracy Accuracy standards ensure that the evaluation produces findings that are considered correct.
Twelve accuracy standards (Box 16) include such items as describing the program and its context; articulating in detail the purpose and methods of the evaluation; employing systematic procedures to gather valid and reliable information; applying appropriate qualitative or quantitative methods during analysis and synthesis; and producing impartial reports containing conclusions that are justified.
The steps and standards are used together throughout the evaluation process.
For each step, a subset of relevant standards should be considered (Box 17).
APPLYING THE FRAMEWORK Conducting Optimal Evaluations Public health professionals can no longer question whether to evaluate their programs; instead, the appropriate questions are What is the best way to evaluate?
What is being learned from the evaluation?
And, How will lessons learned from evaluations be used to make public health efforts more effective and accountable?
The framework for program evaluation helps answer these questions by guiding its users in selecting evaluation strategies that are useful, feasible, ethical, and accurate.
To use the recommended framework in a specific program context requires practice, which builds skill in both the science and art of program evaluation.
When applying the framework, the challenge is to devise an optimal -- as opposed to an ideal -- strategy.
An optimal strategy is one that accomplishes each step in the framework in a way that accommodates the program context and meets or exceeds all relevant standards.
CDC's evaluations of human immunodeficiency virus prevention efforts, including school-based programs, provide examples of optimal strategies for national-, state-, and local-level evaluation (97,98).
Assembling an Evaluation Team Harnessing and focusing the efforts of a collaborative group is one approach to conducting an optimal evaluation (24,25).
A team approach can succeed when a small group of carefully selected persons decides what the evaluation must accomplish and pools resources to implement the plan.
Stakeholders might have varying levels of involvement on the team that correspond to their own perspectives, skills, and concerns.
A leader must be designated to coordinate the team and maintain continuity throughout the process; thereafter, the steps in evaluation practice guide the selection of team members.
For example, Those who are diplomatic and have diverse networks can engage other stakeholders and maintain involvement.
When describing the program, persons are needed who understand the program's history, purpose, and practical operation in the field.
In addition, those with group facilitation skills might be asked to help elicit unspoken expectations regarding the program and to expose hidden values that partners bring to the effort.
Such facilitators can also help the stakeholders create logic models that describe the program and clarify its pattern of relationships between means and ends.
Decision makers and others who guide program direction can help focus the evaluation design on questions that address specific users and uses.
They can also set logistic parameters for the evaluation's scope, time line, and deliverables.
Scientists, particularly social and behavioral scientists, can bring expertise to the development of evaluation questions, methods, and evidence gathering strategies.
They can also help analyze how a program operates in its organizational or community context.
Trusted persons who have no particular stake in the evaluation can ensure that participants' values are treated fairly when applying standards, interpreting facts, and reaching justified conclusions.
Advocates, clear communicators, creative thinkers, and members of the power structure can help ensure that lessons learned from the evaluation influence future decision-making regarding program strategy.
All organizations, even those that are able to find evaluation team members within their own agency, should collaborate with partners and take advantage of community resources when assembling an evaluation team.
This strategy increases the available resources and enhances the evaluation's credibility.
Furthermore, a diverse team of engaged stakeholders has a greater probability of conducting a culturally competent evaluation (i.e., one that understands and is sensitive to the persons, conditions, and contexts associated with the program) (99,100).
Although challenging for the coordinator and the participants, the collaborative approach is practical because of the benefits it brings (e.g., reduces suspicion and fear, increases awareness and commitment, increases the possibility of achieving objectives, broadens knowledge base, teaches evaluation skills, strengthens partnerships, increases the possibility that findings will be used, and allows for differing perspectives) (8,24).
Addressing Common Concerns Common concerns regarding program evaluation are clarified by using this framework.
Evaluations might not be undertaken because they are misperceived as having to be costly.
However, the expense of an evaluation is relative; the cost depends on the questions being asked and the level of precision desired for the answers.
A simple, low-cost evaluation can deliver valuable results.
Rather than discounting evaluations as time-consuming and tangential to program operations (e.g., left to the end of a program's project period), the framework encourages conducting evaluations from the beginning that are timed strategically to provide necessary feedback to guide action.
This makes integrating evaluation with program practice possible.
Another concern centers on the perceived technical demands of designing and conducting an evaluation.
Although circumstances exist where controlled environments and elaborate analytic techniques are needed, most public health program evaluations do not require such methods.
Instead, the practical approach endorsed by this framework focuses on questions that will improve the program by using context-sensitive methods and analytic techniques that summarize accurately the meaning of qualitative and quantitative information.
Finally, the prospect of evaluation troubles some program staff because they perceive evaluation methods as punitive, exclusionary, or adversarial.
The framework encourages an evaluation approach that is designed to be helpful and engages all interested stakeholders in a process that welcomes their participation.
Sanctions to be applied, if any, should not result from discovering negative findings, but from failing to use the learning to change for greater effectiveness (10).
EVALUATION TRENDS Interest in program improvement and accountability continues to grow in government, private, and nonprofit sectors.
The Government Performance and Results Act requires federal agencies to set performance goals and to measure annual results.
Nonprofit donor organizations (e.g., United Way) have integrated evaluation into their program activities and now require that grant recipients measure program outcomes (30).
Public-health-oriented foundations (e.g., W.K.
Kellogg Foundation) have also begun to emphasize the role of evaluation in their programming (24).
Innovative approaches to staffing program evaluations have also emerged.
For example, the American Cancer Society (ACS) Collaborative Evaluation Fellows Project links students and faculty in 17 schools of public health with the ACS national and regional offices to evaluate local cancer control programs (101).
These activities across public and private sectors reflect a collective investment in building evaluation capacity for improving performance and being accountable for achieving public health results.
Investments in evaluation capacity are made to improve program quality and effectiveness.
One of the best examples of the beneficial effects of conducting evaluations is the Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Award Program (102).*** Evidence demonstrates that the evaluative processes required to win the Baldridge Award have helped American businesses outperform their competitors (103).
Now these same effects on quality and performance are being translated to the health and human service sector.
Recently, Baldridge Award criteria were developed for judging the excellence of health care organizations (104).
This extension to the health-care industry illustrates the critical role for evaluation in achieving health and human service objectives.
Likewise, the framework for program evaluation was developed to help integrate evaluation into the corporate culture of public health and fulfill CDC's operating principles for public health practice (1,2).
Building evaluation capacity throughout the public health workforce is a goal also shared by the Public Health Functions Steering Committee.
Chaired by the U.S.
Surgeon General, this committee identified core competencies for evaluation as essential for the public health workforce of the twenty first century (105).
With its focus on making evaluation accessible to all program staff and stakeholders, the framework helps to promote evaluation literacy and competency among all public health professionals.
SUMMARY Evaluation is the only way to separate programs that promote health and prevent injury, disease, or disability from those that do not; it is a driving force for planning effective public health strategies, improving existing programs, and demonstrating the results of resource investments.
Evaluation also focuses attention on the common purpose of public health programs and asks whether the magnitude of investment matches the tasks to be accomplished (95).
The recommended framework is both a synthesis of existing evaluation practices and a standard for further improvement.
It supports a practical approach to evaluation that is based on steps and standards applicable in public health settings.
Because the framework is purposefully general, it provides a guide for designing and conducting specific evaluation projects across many different program areas.
In addition, the framework can be used as a template to create or enhance program-specific evaluation guidelines that further operationalize the steps and standards in ways that are appropriate for each program (20,96,106-112).
Thus, the recommended framework is one of several tools that CDC can use with its partners to improve and account for their health promotion and disease or injury prevention work.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sources of additional information are available for those who wish to begin applying the framework presented in this report or who wish to enhance their under- standing of program evaluation.
In particular, the following resources are recommended: "Practical Evaluation of Public Health Programs" (course no.
VC0017) is a 5-hr distance-learning course that also uses the framework presented in this report.
Developed through CDC's Public Health Training Network (PHTN) (8), the course consists of two videotapes and a workbook, which can be used by individuals for self-study or by small groups with optional activities.
Continuing education credit is available for this course.
The Community Toolbox (CTB) is an Internet resource for health promotion and community development that contains information regarding how to conduct public health work and social change on a community level.
Because they consider program evaluation to be a critical part of successful community-based health promotion, the CTB team used the framework for program evaluation to create a unique gateway to evaluation-related ideas and tools.
The CDC Evaluation Working Group has compiled a list of additional resources for program evaluation.
These resources address such topics as a) ethics, principles, and standards for program evaluation; b) evaluation-related organizations, societies, foundations, and associations; c) journals and on-line publications; d) step-by-step evaluation manuals; e) resources for developing logic models; f) planning- and performance-improvement tools; and g) evaluation-related publications.
References Dyal WW.
Ten organizational practices of public health: a historical perspective.
Am J Prev Med 1995;11(6)Suppl 2:6-8.
CDC sets millennium priorities.
US Medicine 1999;4-7.
Minimalist theory of evaluation: the least theory that practice requires.
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19:57-70.
Shadish WR, Cook TD, Leviton LC.
Foundations of program evaluation: theories of practice.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications, 1991.
Evaluation: methods for studying programs and policies.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998.
Worthen BR, Sanders JR, Fitzpatrick, JL.
Program evaluation: alternative approaches and practical guidelines.
New York, NY: Longman, 1996.
Utilization-focused evaluation: the new century text.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1997.
Practical evaluation of public health programs.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, Public Health Training Network, 1998; PHTN course no.
Internal evaluation: building organizations from within.
Applied social research, vol 24.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications, 1991.
Sanders JR.
Uses of evaluation as a means toward organizational effectiveness.
In: Gray ST, ed.
Leadership IS: a vision of evaluation; a report of learnings from Independent Sector's work on evaluation.
Washington, DC: Independent Sector, 1993.
Shadish WR.
Evaluation theory is who we are.
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19(1):1-19.
Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Personnel evaluation standards: how to assess systems for evaluating educators.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications, 1988.
Principles of community engagement.
Atlanta, GA: CDC, Public Health Practice Program Office, 1997.
Mertens DM.
Inclusive evaluation: implications of transformative theory for evaluation.
American Journal of Evaluation 1999;20(1):1-14.
Connell JP, Kubisch AC.
Applying a theory of change approach to the evaluation of comprehensive community initiatives: progress, prospects, and problems.
In: Fulbright-Anderson K, Kubisch AC, Connell JP, eds.
New approaches to evaluating community initiatives: theory, measurement, and analysis.
Washington, DC: Aspen Institute, 1998.
Theory driven evaluations.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications, 1990.
General Accounting Office.
Managing for results: measuring program results that are under limited federal control.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office 1998; publication no.
GAO/GGD-99-16.
Haddix AC, Teutsch SM, Shaffer PA, Duñet DO, eds.
Prevention effectiveness: a guide to decision analysis and economic evaluation.
New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996.
Framework for assessing the effectiveness of disease and injury prevention.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
RR-3):1-13.
Gold ME, Russell LB, Siegel JE, Weinstein MC.
Cost-effectiveness in health and medicine.
New York: Oxford University Press, 1996.
Eoyang GH, Berkas T.
Evaluation in a complex adaptive system.
In: Lissack M, Gunz H, eds.
Managing complexity in organizations.
Westport, CT: Quorum Books, 1999.
Rush B, Ogbourne A.
Program logic models: expanding their role and structure for program planning and evaluation.
Canadian Journal of Program Evaluation 1991;6(2):95-106.
Kellogg Foundation.
Foundation Evaluation Handbook.
Battle Creek, MI: W.K.
Kellogg Foundation, 1998.
Taylor-Powell E, Rossing B, Geran J.
Evaluating collaboratives: reaching the potential.
Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin--Cooperative Extension, 1998.
Poreteous NL, Sheldrick BJ, Stewart PJ.
Program evaluation tool kit: a blueprint for public health management.
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Ottawa-Carleton Health Department, Public Health Research, Education and Development Program, 1997.
Nothing as practical as a good theory: exploring theory-based evaluation for comprehensive community initiatives for families and children.
In: Connell JP, Kubisch AC, Schorr LB, Weiss CH, eds.
New approaches to evaluating community initiatives: concepts, methods, and contexts.
Washington, DC: Aspen Institute, 1995.
How can theory-based evaluation make greater headway?
Evaluation Review 1997;21:501-24.
Wong-Reiger D, David L.
Using program logic models to plan and evaluate education and prevention programs.
In: Love AJ, ed.
Evaluation methods sourcebook II.
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Canadian Evaluation Society, 1995.
United Way of America.
Measuring program outcomes: a practical approach.
Alexandria, VA: United Way of America, 1996.
Moyer A, Verhovsek H, Wilson VL.
Facilitating the shift to population-based public health programs: innovation through the use of framework and logic model tools.
Can J Public Health 1997;88(2):95-8.
McLaughlin JA, Jordan GB.
Logic models: a tool for telling your program's performance story.
Evaluation and Program Planning 1999;22(1):65-72.
McEwan KL, Bigelow DA.
Using a logic model to focus health services on population health goals.
Canadian Journal of Program Evaluation 1997;12(1):167-74.
Utilization of the logic model as a system level planning and evaluation device.
Evaluation and Program Planning 1997;20(3):251-7.
Theory as method: small theories of treatments.
New Directions for Program Evaluation 1993;57:5-38.
General Accounting Office.
Designing evaluations.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1991; publication no.
GAO/PEMD-10.1.4.
Taylor-Powell E, Steele S, Douglah M.
Planning a program evaluation.
Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Cooperative Extension, 1996.
Fetterman DM, Kaftarian SJ, Wandersman A, eds.
Empowerment evaluation: knowledge and tools for self-assessment and accountability.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1996.
Preskill HS, Torres RT.
Evaluative inquiry for learning in organizations.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1999.
Toward distinguishing empowerment evaluation and placing it in a larger context.
Evaluation Practice 1997;18(2):147-63.
Wandersman A, Morrissey E, Davino K, et al.
Comprehensive quality programming and accountability: eight essential strategies for implementing successful prevention programs.
Journal of Primary Prevention 1998;19(1):3-30.
Cousins JB, Whitmore E.
Framing participatory evaluation.
In: Whitmore E, ed.
Understanding and practicing participatory evaluation, vol 80.
San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass, 1998:5-24.
Bickman L, Rog DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998.
Cook TD, Reichardt CS, eds.
Qualitative and quantitative methods in evaluation research.
Sage research progress series in evaluation, vol 1.
Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications, 1979.
Qualitative evaluation and research methods.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications, 1990.
Posavac EJ, Carey RG.
Program evaluation: methods and case studies.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1980.
Rossi PH, Freeman HE, Lipsey MW.
Evaluation: a systematic approach.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1999.
Trochim WMK.
Accessed June 1999.
Randomized controlled experiments for evaluation and planning.
In: Bickman L, Rog DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:161-92.
Cook TD, Campbell DT.
Quasi-experimentation: design and analysis issues for field settings.
Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1979.
Reichardt CS, Mark MM.
Quasi-experimentation.
In: Bickman L, Rob DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:193-228.
Case study research: design and methods.
Applied Social Research Methods Series, vol 5.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Abridged version of case study research: design and method.
In: Bickman L, Rob DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:229-60.
General Accounting Office.
Case study evaluations.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1990; publication no.
GAO/PEMD-91-10.1.9.
McQueen DV, Anderson LM.
What counts as evidence?
Issues and debates on evidence relevant to the evaluation of community health promotion programs.
In: Rootman I, Goodstadt M, Hyndman B, et al., eds.
Evaluation in health promotion: principles and perspectives.
Copenhagen, Denmark.
World Health Organization (Euro), 1999 (In press).
Green JC, Caracelli V, eds.
Advances in mixed-method evaluation: the challenges and benefits of integrating diverse paradigms.
New Directions for Program Evaluation, vol 74; San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass 1997.
Frechtling J, Sharp L.
User-friendly handbook for mixed method evaluations.
Arlington, VA: National Science Foundation, 1997.
General Accounting Office.
Evaluation synthesis.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1992.
publication no.
GAO/PEMD-10.1.2.
Newman DL, Brown RD.
Applied ethics for program evaluation.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1996.
Fitzpatrick JL, Morris M, eds.
Current and emerging ethical challenges in evaluation.
New Directions for Program Evaluation, vol 82; San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass 1999.
Newcomer K.
Using statistics appropriately.
In: Wholey J, Hatry H, Newcomer K, eds.
Handbook of practical program evaluation.
San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass, 1994.
Basch CE, Silepcevich EM, Gold RS, Duncan DF, Kolbe LJ.
Avoiding type III errors in health education program evaluation: a case study.
Health Education Quarterly 1985;12(4):315-31.
Perrin EB, Koshel JJ, eds.
Assessment of performance measures for public health, substance abuse, and mental health.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1997.
Knowledge and public policy: the search for meaningful indicators.
2nd expanded ed.
New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1990.
McRae D Jr.
Policy indicators: links between social science and public debate.
Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1985.
Institute of Medicine.
Improving health in the community: a role for performance monitoring.
Durch, JS, Bailey LA, Stoto MA, eds.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1997.
Performance measurement: problems and solutions.
Health Aff 1998;17(4):7-25.
Harvard Family Research Project.
Performance measurement.
Evaluation Exchange 1998;4(1):1-15.
New activities and use of indicators in the evaluation of HIV prevention efforts at CDC.
National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD) HIV Prevention Community Planning Bulletin;1997:2-3.
Center for Substance Abuse Prevention.
Measurements in prevention: a manual on selecting and using instruments to evaluate prevention programs.
CSAP technical report no.
8 (SMA)93-2041.
Rockville, MD: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, 1993.
Goodman RM, Speers MA, McLeroy K, et al.
Identifying and defining the dimensions of community capacity to provide a basis for measurement.
Health Educ Behav 1998;25(3):258-78.
Phillips JJ.
Handbook of training evaluation and measurement methods.
Houston, TX: Gulf Publishing Company, 1997.
What Independent Sector learned from an evaluation of its own hard-to-measure programs.
In: Gray ST, ed.
Leadership IS: a vision of evaluation; a report of learnings from Independent Sector's work on evaluation.
Washington, DC: Independent Sector, 1993.
Effective use and misuse of performance measurement.
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19(3):367-79.
General Accounting Office.
Using statistical sampling.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1992; publication no.
GAO/PEMD-10.1.6.
Practical sampling.
In: Bickman L, Rog DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:101-26.
Johnson JC.
Selecting ethnographic informants.
Qualitative Research Methods Series, vol 22; Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1991, Steckler A, McLeroy KR, Goodman RM, Bird ST, McCormick L.
Toward integrating qualitative and quantitative methods: an introduction.
Health Education Quarterly 1992;19(1):191-8.
Qualitative program evaluation: practice and promise.
In: Denzin NK, Lincoln YS, eds.
Handbook of qualitative research.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
de Vries H, Weijts W, Dijkstra M, Kok G.
Utilization of qualitative and quantitative data for health education program planning, implementation, and evaluation: a spiral approach.
Health Education Quarterly 1992;19:101-15.
General Accounting Office.
Prospective evaluation methods: the prospective evaluation synthesis.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1990; publication no.
GAO/PEMD-10.1.10.
What can you build with thousands of bricks?
Musings on the cumulation of knowledge in program evaluation.
New Directions for Evaluation 1997;76:7-23.
Design sensitivity: statistical power for applied experimental research.
In: Bickman L, Rob DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:39-68.
Planning ethically responsible research.
In: Bickman L, Rob DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:127-56.
Miles MB, Huberman AM.
Qualitative data analysis: an expanded sourcebook.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Hennessy M.
Evaluation.
In: Stroup D, Teutsch S., eds.
Statistics in Public Health.
New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998:193-219.
Graphing data.
In: Bickman L, Rog DJ, eds.
Handbook of applied social research methods.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998:527-56.
Sensemaking in organizations.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1995.
Rogers PJ, Hough G.
Improving the effectiveness of evaluations: making the link to organizational theory.
Evaluation and Program Planning 1995;18(4):321-32.
Adler M, Ziglio E.
Gazing into the oracle: the Delphi method and its application to social policy and public health.
Bristol, PA: Jessica Kingsley Publishers, 1996.
Torres RT, Preskill HS, Piontek ME.
Evaluation strategies for communicating and reporting: enhancing learning in organizations.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1996.
Zaltman G, Barabba VP.
Hearing the voice of the market: competitive advantage through creative use of market information.
Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1990.
Shulha LM, Cousins JB.
Evaluation use: theory, research, and practice since 1986.
Evaluation Practice 1997;18(3):195-208.
Have we learned anything new about the use of evaluation?
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19(1):21-33.
Common purpose: strengthening families and neighborhoods to rebuild America.
New York, NY: Doubleday, Anchor Books, 1997.
Fawcett SB, Paine-Andrews A, Francisco VT, et al.
Evaluating community initiatives for health and development.
In: Rootman I, Goodstadt M, Hyndman B, et al., eds.
Evaluation in health promotion: principles and perspectives.
Copenhagen, Denmark.
World Health Organization (Euro), 1999 (In press).
Collins J, Rugg D, Kann L, Banspach S, and Kolbe L.
Evaluating a national program of school-based HIV prevention.
Evaluation and Program Planning 1996;19(3):209-18.
Rugg D, Buehler J, Renaud M, et al.
Evaluating HIV prevention: a framework for national, state, and local levels.
American Journal of Evaluation 1999:20(1):35-56.
Greene J, Lincoln Y, Mathison S, Mertens DM, Ryan K.
Advantages and challenges of using inclusive evaluation approaches in evaluation practice.
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19(1):101-22.
The context of investigations in cross-cultural evaluations.
Studies in Educational Evaluation 1991;17:3-21.
Bonnet, DG.
An evaluation of year 1 of the American Cancer Society's collaborative evaluation fellows project.
Indianapolis, IN: D.
Bonnet Associates, 1999.
National Institute of Standards and Technology.
National Quality Program.
National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1999.
Accessed June 1999.
National Institute of Standards and Technology.
Baldridge index outperforms S&P 500 for fifth year.
National Institute of Standards and Technology, National Quality Program, 1999.
Accessed June 1999.
National Institute of Standards and Technology.
Health care criteria for performance excellence.
Gaithersburg, MD: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Baldrige National Quality Program, 1999.
Accessed June 1999.
Public Health Service.
Public health workforce: an agenda for the 21st century: a report of the public health functions project.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, 1997.
Handbook for evaluating HIV education.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Division of Adolescent and School Health, 1993.
Thompson, NJ, McClintock HO.
Demonstrating your program's worth: a primer on evaluation for programs to prevent unintentional injury.
Atlanta: CDC, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, 1998.
Guidelines for evaluating surveillance systems.
MMWR 1988;37(No.
SS-5):1-18.
Fawcett SB, Sterling TD, Paine-Andrews A, et al.
Evaluating community efforts to prevent cardiovascular diseases.
Atlanta, GA: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, 1995.
Rootman I, Goodstadt M, Hyndman B, et al., eds.
Evaluation in health promotion: principles and perspectives.
Copenhagen, Denmark.
World Health Organization (Euro), 1999 (In press).
Atlanta, GA: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, Office of Communication, 1998.
Linney JA, Wandersman A.
Prevention plus III: assessing alcohol and other drug prevention programs at the school and community level: a four-step guide to useful program assessment.
Rockville, MD: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration, Office for Substance Abuse Prevention, 1991.
publication no.
(ADM)91-1817.
* The program evaluation standards are an approved standard by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and have been endorsed by the American Evaluation Association and 14 other professional organizations (ANSI Standard No.
JSEE-PR 1994, Approved March 15, 1994).
** Developed by the Rand Corporation, the Delphi process is an iterative method for arriving at a consensus concerning an issue or problem by circulating questions and responses to a panel of qualified reviewers whose identities are usually not revealed to one another.
The questions and responses are progressively refined with each round until a viable option or solution is reached.
*** The Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Improvement Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-107) established a public-private partnership focused on encouraging American business and other organizations to practice effective quality management.
The annual award process, which involves external review as well as self-assessment against Criteria for Performance Excellence, provides a proven course for organizations to improve significantly the quality of their goods and services.
Box 1 BOX 1.
Steps in evaluation practice and standards for effective evaluation Steps in Evaluation Practice Engage stakeholders Those persons involved in or affected by the program and primary users of the evaluation.
Describe the program Need, expected effects, activities, resources, stage, context, logic model.
Focus the evaluation design Purpose, users, uses, questions, methods, agreements.
Gather credible evidence Indicators, sources, quality, quantity, logistics.
Justify conclusions Standards, analysis/synthesis, interpretation, judgment, recommendations.
Ensure use and share lessons learned Design, preparation, feedback, follow-up, dissemination.
Standards for Effective Evaluation Utility Serve the information needs of intended users.
Feasibility Be realistic, prudent, diplomatic, and frugal.
Propriety Behave legally, ethically, and with regard for the welfare of those involved and those affected.
Accuracy Reveal and convey technically accurate information.
Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Box 2 BOX 2.
Engaging stakeholders Definition Fostering input, participation, and power-sharing among those persons who have an investment in the conduct of the evalation and the findings; it is especially important to engage primary users of the evaluation.
Role Helps increase chances that the evaluation will be useful; can improve the evaluation's credibility, clarify roles and responsibilities, enhance cultural competence, help protect human subjects, and avoid real or perceived conflicts of interest.
Example Activities Consulting insiders (e.g., leaders, staff, clients, and program funding sources) and outsiders (e.g., skeptics); Taking special effort to promote the inclusion of less powerful groups or individuals; Coordinating stakeholder input throughout the process of evaluation design, operation, and use; and Avoiding excessive stakeholder identification, which might prevent progress of the evaluation.
Adapted from Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Box 3 BOX 3.
Describing the program Definition Scrutinizing the features of the program being evaluated, including its purpose and place in a larger context.
Description includes information regarding the way the program was intended to function and the way that it actually was implemented.
Also includes features of the program's context that are likely to influence conclusions regarding the program.
Role Improves evaluation's fairness and accuracy; permits a balanced assessment of strengths and weaknesses and helps stakeholders understand how program features fit together and relate to a larger context.
Example Activities Characterizing the need (or set of needs) addressed by the program; Listing specific expectations as goals, objectives, and criteria for success; Clarifying why program activities are believed to lead to expected changes; Drawing an explicit logic model to illustrate relationships between program elements and expected changes; Assessing the program's maturity or stage of development; Analyzing the context within which the program operates; Considering how the program is linked to other ongoing efforts; and Avoiding creation of an overly precise description for a program that is under development.
Adapted from Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 4 BOX 4.
Selected uses for evaluation in public health practice by category of purpose Gain insight Assess needs, desires, and assets of community members.
Identify barriers and facilitators to service use.
Learn how to describe and measure program activities and effects.
Change practice Refine plans for introducing a new service.
Characterize the extent to which intervention plans were implemented.
Improve the content of educational materials.
Enhance the program's cultural competence.
Verify that participants' rights are protected.
Set priorities for staff training.
Make midcourse adjustments to improve patient/client flow.
Improve the clarity of health communication messages.
Determine if customer satisfaction rates can be improved.
Mobilize community support for the program.
Assess effects Assess skills development by program participants.
Compare changes in provider behavior over time.
Compare costs with benefits.
Find out which participants do well in the program.
Decide where to allocate new resources.
Document the level of success in accomplishing objectives.
Demonstrate that accountability requirements are fulfilled.
Aggregate information from several evaluations to estimate outcome effects for similar kinds of programs.
Gather success stories.
Affect participants Reinforce intervention messages.
Stimulate dialogue and raise awareness regarding health issues.
Broaden consensus among coalition members regarding program goals.
Teach evaluation skills to staff and other stakeholders.
Support organizational change and development.
Return to top.
Box 5 BOX 5.
Focusing the evaluation design Definition Planning in advance where the evaluation is headed and what steps will be taken; process is iterative (i.e., it continues until a focused approach is found to answer evaluation questions with methods that stakeholders agree will be useful, feasible, ethical, and accurate); evaluation questions and methods might be adjusted to achieve an optimal match that facilitates use by primary users.
Role Provides investment in quality; increases the chances that the evaluation will succeed by identifying procedures that are practical, politically viable, and cost-effective; failure to plan thoroughly can be self-defeating, leading to an evaluation that might become impractical or useless; when stakeholders agree on a design focus, it is used throughout the evaluation process to keep the project on track.
Example Activities Meeting with stakeholders to clarify the intent or purpose of the evaluation; Learning which persons are in a position to actually use the findings, then orienting the plan to meet their needs; Understanding how the evaluation results are to be used; Writing explicit evaluation questions to be answered; Describing practical methods for sampling, data collection, data analysis, interpretation, and judgment; Preparing a written protocol or agreement that summarizes the evaluation procedures, with clear roles and responsibilities for all stakeholders; and Revising parts or all of the evaluation plan when critical circumstances change.
Adapted from a) Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994; and b) U.S.
General Accounting Office.
Designing evaluations.
Washington, DC: U.S.
General Accounting Office, 1991; publication no.
GAO/PEMD-10.1.4.
Return to top.
Box 6 BOX 6.
Selected sources of evidence for an evaluation Persons Clients, program participants, nonparticipants; Staff, program managers, administrators; General public; Key informants; Funding officials; Critics/skeptics; Staff of other agencies; Representatives of advocacy groups; Elected officials, legislators, policymakers; and Local and state health officials.
Documents Grant proposals, newsletters, press releases; Meeting minutes, administrative records, registration/enrollment forms; Publicity materials, quarterly reports; Publications, journal articles, posters; Previous evaluation reports; Asset and needs assessments; Surveillance summaries; Database records; Records held by funding officials or collaborators; Internet pages; and Graphs, maps, charts, photographs, videotapes.
Observations Meetings, special events/activities, job performance; and Service encounters.
Adapted from Taylor-Powell E, Rossing B, Geran J.
Evaluating collaboratives: reaching the potential.
Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Cooperative Extension, 1998.
Return to top.
Box 7 BOX 7.
Selected techniques for gathering evidence Written survey (e.g.
handout, telephone, fax, mail, e-mail, or Internet); Personal interview (e.g.
individual or group; structured, semistructured, or conversational); Observation; Document analysis; Case study; Group assessment (e.g.
Adapted from a) Taylor-Powell E, Rossing B, Geran J.
Evaluating collaboratives: reaching the potential.
Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Cooperative Extension, 1998; b) Phillips JJ.
Handbook of training evaluation and measurement methods.
Houston, TX: Gulf Publishing Company, 1997; c) Weller SC.
Systematic data collection.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, Inc.
1988; and d) Trochim WMK.
Introduction to concept mapping for planning and evaluation.
Accessed July 1999.
Return to top.
Box 8 BOX 8.
Gathering credible evidence Definition Compiling information that stakeholders perceive as trustworthy and `relevant for answering their questions.
Such evidence can be experimental or observational, qualitative or quantitative, or it can include a mixture of methods.
Adequate data might be available and easily accessed, or it might need to be defined and new data collected.
Whether a body of evidence is credible to stakeholders depends on such factors as how the questions were posed, sources of information, conditions of data collection, reliability of measurement, validity of interpretations, and quality control procedures.
Role Enhances the evaluation's utility and accuracy; guides the scope and selection of information and gives priority to the most defensible information sources; promotes the collection of valid, reliable, and systematic information that is the foundation of any effective evaluation.
Example Activities Choosing indicators that meaningfully address evaluation questions; Describing fully the attributes of information sources and the rationale for their selection; Establishing clear procedures and training staff to collect high-quality information; Monitoring periodically the quality of information obtained and taking practical steps to improve quality; Estimating in advance the amount of information required or establishing criteria for deciding when to stop collecting data in situations where an iterative or evolving process is used; and Safeguarding the confidentiality of information and information sources.
Adapted from Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 9 BOX 9.
Selected sources of standards for judging program performance Needs of participants; Community values, expectations, norms; Degree of participation; Program objectives; Program protocols and procedures; Expected performance, forecasts, estimates; Feasibility; Sustainability; Absence of harms; Targets or fixed criteria of performance; Change in performance over time; Performance by previous or similar programs; Performance by a control or comparison group; Resource efficiency; Professional standards; Mandates, policies, statutes, regulations, laws; Judgments by reference groups (e.g., participants, staff, experts, and funding officials); Institutional goals; Political ideology; Social equity; Political will; and Human rights.
Adapted from a) Patton MQ.
Utilization-focused evaluation: the new century text.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1997; b) Scriven M.
Minimalist theory of evaluation: the least theory that practice requires.
American Journal of Evaluation 1998;19(1):57-70; c) McKenzie JF.
Planning, implementing, and evaluating health promotion programs: a primer.
New York, NY: Macmillan Publishing Company, 1993; d) Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994; and e) Gostin L, Mann JM.
Towards the development of a human rights impact assessment for the formulation and evaluation of public health policies.
Health and Human Rights 1994;1:59-80.
Return to top.
Box 10 BOX 10.
Justifying conclusions Definition Making claims regarding the program that are warranted on the basis of data that have been compared against pertinent and defensible ideas of merit, worth, or significance (i.e., against standards of values); conclusions are justified when they are linked to the evidence gathered and consistent with the agreed on values or standards of stakeholders.
Role Reinforces conclusions central to the evaluation's utility and accuracy; involves values clarification, qualitative and quantitative data analysis and synthesis, systematic interpretation, and appropriate comparison against relevant standards for judgment.
Example Activities Using appropriate methods of analysis and synthesis to summarize findings; Interpreting the significance of results for deciding what the findings mean; Making judgments according to clearly stated values that classify a result (e.g., as positive or negative and high or low); Considering alternative ways to compare results (e.g., compared with program objectives, a comparison group, national norms, past performance, or needs); Generating alternative explanations for findings and indicating why these explanations should or should not be discounted; Recommending actions or decisions that are consistent with the conclusions; and Limiting conclusions to situations, time periods, persons, contexts, and purposes for which the findings are applicable.
Adapted from Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 11 BOX 11.
Checklist for ensuring effective evaluation reports Provide interim and final reports to intended users in time for use.
Tailor the report content, format, and style for the audience(s) by involving audience members.
Include a summary.
Summarize the description of the stakeholders and how they were engaged.
Describe essential features of the program (e.g., including logic models).
Explain the focus of the evaluation and its limitations.
Include an adequate summary of the evaluation plan and procedures.
Provide all necessary technical information (e.g., in appendices).
Specify the standards and criteria for evaluative judgments.
Explain the evaluative judgments and how they are supported by the evidence.
List both strengths and weaknesses of the evaluation.
Discuss recommendations for action with their advantages, disadvantages, and resource implications.
Ensure protections for program clients and other stakeholders.
Anticipate how people or organizations might be affected by the findings.
Present minority opinions or rejoinders where necessary.
Verify that the report is accurate and unbiased.
Organize the report logically and include appropriate details.
Remove technical jargon.
Use examples, illustrations, graphics, and stories.
Adapted from Worthen BR, Sanders JR, Fitzpatrick JL.
Program evaluation: alternative approaches and practical guidelines.
New York, NY: Logman, Inc.
Return to top.
Box 12 BOX 12.
Ensuring use and sharing lessons learned Definition Ensuring that a) stakeholders are aware of the evaluation procedures and findings; b) the findings are considered in decisions or actions that affect the program (i.e., findings use); and c) those who participated in the evaluation have had a beneficial experience (i.e., process use).
Role Ensures that evaluation achieves its primary purpose -- being useful; however, several factors might influence the degree of use, including evaluator credibility, report clarity, report timeliness and dissemination, disclosure of findings, impartial reporting, and changes in the program or organization context.
Example Activities Designing the evaluation to achieve intended use by intended users; Preparing stakeholders for eventual use by rehearsing throughout the project how different kinds of conclusions would affect program operations; Providing continuous feedback to stakeholders regarding interim findings, provisional interpretations, and decisions to be made that might affect likelihood of use; Scheduling follow-up meetings with intended users to facilitate the transfer of evaluation conclusions into appropriate actions or decisions; and Disseminating both the procedures used and the lessons learned from the evaluation to stakeholders, using tailored communications strategies that meet their particular needs.
Adapted from a) Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994; and b) Patton MQ.
Utilization-focused evaluation: the new century text.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1997.
Return to top.
Box 13 BOX 13.
Utility standards The following utility standards ensure that an evaluation will serve the information needs of intended users: Stakeholder identification.
Persons involved in or affected by the evaluation should be identified so that their needs can be addressed.
Evaluator credibility.
The persons conducting the evaluation should be trustworthy and competent in performing the evaluation for findings to achieve maximum credibility and acceptance.
Information scope and selection.
Information collected should address pertinent questions regarding the program and be responsive to the needs and interests of clients and other specified stakeholders.
Values identification.
The perspectives, procedures, and rationale used to interpret the findings should be carefully described so that the bases for value judgments are clear.
Report clarity.
Evaluation reports should clearly describe the program being evaluated, including its context and the purposes, procedures, and findings of the evaluation so that essential information is provided and easily understood.
Report timeliness and dissemination.
Substantial interim findings and evaluation reports should be disseminated to intended users so that they can be used in a timely fashion.
Evaluation impact.
Evaluations should be planned, conducted, and reported in ways that encourage follow-through by stakeholders to increase the likelihood of the evaluation being used.
Source: Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 14 BOX 14.
Feasibility standards The following feasibility standards ensure that an evaluation will be realistic, prudent, diplomatic, and frugal: Practical procedures.
Evaluation procedures should be practical while needed information is being obtained to keep disruption to a minimum.
Political viability.
During planning and conduct of the evaluation, consideration should be given to the varied positions of interest groups so that their cooperation can be obtained and possible attempts by any group to curtail evaluation operations or to bias or misapply the results can be averted or counteracted.
Cost-effectiveness.
The evaluation should be efficient and produce valuable information to justify expended resources.
Source: Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 15 BOX 15.
Propriety standards The following propriety standards ensure that an evaluation will be conducted legally, ethically, and with regard for the welfare of those involved in the evaluation as well as those affected by its results: Service orientation.
The evaluation should be designed to assist organizations in addressing and serving effectively the needs of the targeted participants.
Formal agreements.
All principal parties involved in an evaluation should agree in writing to their obligations (i.e., what is to be done, how, by whom, and when) so that each must adhere to the conditions of the agreement or renegotiate it.
Rights of human subjects.
The evaluation should be designed and conducted in a manner that respects and protects the rights and welfare of human subjects.
Human interactions.
Evaluators should interact respectfully with other persons associated with an evaluation, so that participants are not threatened or harmed.
Complete and fair assessment.
The evaluation should be complete and fair in its examination and recording of strengths and weaknesses of the program so that strengths can be enhanced and problem areas addressed.
Disclosure of findings.
The principal parties to an evaluation should ensure that the full evaluation findings with pertinent limitations are made accessible to the persons affected by the evaluation and any others with expressed legal rights to receive the results.
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest should be handled openly and honestly so that the evaluation processes and results are not compromised.
Fiscal responsibility.
The evaluator's allocation and expenditure of resources should reflect sound accountability procedures by being prudent and ethically responsible, so that expenditures are accountable and appropriate.
Source: Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 16 BOX 16.
Accuracy standards The following accuracy standards ensure that an evaluation will convey technically adequate information regarding the determining features of merit of the program: Program documentation.
The program being evaluated should be documented clearly and accurately.
Context analysis.
The context in which the program exists should be examined in enough detail to identify probable influences on the program.
Described purposes and procedures.
The purposes and procedures of the evaluation should be monitored and described in enough detail to identify and assess them.
Defensible information sources.
Sources of information used in a program evaluation should be described in enough detail to assess the adequacy of the information.
Valid information.
Information-gathering procedures should be developed and implemented to ensure a valid interpretation for the intended use.
Reliable information.
Information-gathering procedures should be developed and implemented to ensure sufficiently reliable information for the intended use.
Systematic information.
Information collected, processed, and reported in an evaluation should be systematically reviewed and any errors corrected.
Analysis of quantitative information.
Quantitative information should be analyzed appropriately and systematically so that evaluation questions are answered effectively.
Analysis of qualitative information.
Qualitative information should be analyzed appropriately and systematically to answer evaluation questions effectively.
Justified conclusions.
Conclusions reached should be explicitly justified for stakeholders' assessment.
Impartial reporting.
Reporting procedures should guard against the distortion caused by personal feelings and biases of any party involved in the evaluation to reflect the findings fairly.
Metaevaluation.
The evaluation should be formatively and summatively evaluated against these and other pertinent standards to guide its conduct appropriately and, on completion, to enable close examination of its strengths and weaknesses by stakeholders.
Source: Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation.
Program evaluation standards: how to assess evaluations of educational programs.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1994.
Return to top.
Box 17 BOX 17.
Cross-reference of steps and relevant standards Steps in Evaluation Practice Relevant Standards Group/Box No.-Item Engaging stakeholders Stakeholder identification Evaluator credibility Formal agreements Rights of human subjects Human interactions Conflict of interest Metaevaluation Utility/13-A Utility/13-B Propriety/15-B Propriety/15-C Propriety/15-D Propriety/15-G Accuracy/16-L Describing the program Complete and fair assessment Program documentation Context analysis Metaevaluation Propriety/15-C Accuracy/16-A Accuracy/16-B Accuracy/16-L Focusing the evaluation design Evaluation impact Practical procedures Political viability Cost effectiveness Service orientation Complete and fair assessment Fiscal responsibility Described purposes and procedures Metaevaluation Utility/13-G Feasibility/14-A Feasibility/14-B Feasibility/14-C Propriety/15-A Propriety/15-E Propriety/15-H Accuracy/16-C Accuracy/16-C Gathering credible evidence Information scope and selection Defensible information sources Valid information Reliable information Systematic information Metaevaluation Utility/13-C Accuracy/16-D Accuracy/16-E Accuracy/16-F Accuracy/16-G Accuracy/16-L Justifying conclusions Values identification Analysis of quantitative information Analysis of qualitative information Justified conclusions Metaevaluation Utility/13-D Accuracy/16-H Accuracy/16-I Accuracy/16-J Accuracy/16-L Ensuring use and sharing lessons learned Evaluator credibility Report clarity Report timeliness and dissemination Evaluation impact Disclosure of findings Impartial reporting Metaevaluation Utility/13-B Utility/13-E Utility/13-F Utility/13-G Propriety/15-F Accuracy/16-K Accuracy/16-L Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports December 16, 2005 / 54(RR15);1-37 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Guidelines for the Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious Tuberculosis Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC The material in this report originated in the National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, Kevin Fenton, MD, PhD, Director, and the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, Kenneth G.
Castro, MD, Director.
Corresponding preparer: Zachary Taylor, MD, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC, 1600 Clifton Road, NE, MS E-10, Atlanta, GA 30333.
Telephone: 404-639-5337; Fax: 404-639-8958; E-mail: ztaylor@cdc.gov.
Summary In 1976, the American Thoracic Society (ATS) published brief guidelines for the investigation, diagnostic evaluation, and medical treatment of TB contacts.
Although investigation of contacts and treatment of infected contacts is an important component of the U.S.
strategy for TB elimination, second in priority to treatment of persons with TB disease, national guidelines have not been updated since 1976.
This statement, the first issued jointly by the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC, was drafted by a working group consisting of members from both organizations on the basis of a review of relevant epidemiologic and other scientific studies and established practices in conducting contact investigations.
This statement provides expanded guidelines concerning investigation of TB exposure and transmission and prevention of future cases of TB through contact investigations.
In addition to the topics discussed previously, these expanded guidelines also discuss multiple related topics (e.g., data management, confidentiality and consent, and human resources).
These guidelines are intended for use by public health officials but also are relevant to others who contribute to TB control efforts.
Although the recommendations pertain to the United States, they might be adaptable for use in other countries that adhere to guidelines issued by the World Health Organization, the International Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, and national TB control programs.
Introduction Background In 1962, isoniazid (INH) was demonstrated to be effective in preventing tuberculosis (TB) among household contacts of persons with TB disease (1).
Investigations of contacts and treatment of contacts with latent TB infection (LTBI) became a strategy in the control and elimination of TB (2,3).
In 1976, the American Thoracic Society (ATS) published brief guidelines for the investigation, diagnostic evaluation, and medical treatment of TB contacts (4).
Although investigation of contacts and treatment of infected contacts is an important component of the U.S.
strategy for TB elimination, second in priority to treatment of persons with TB disease, national guidelines have not been updated since 1976.
This statement, the first issued jointly by the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association (NTCA) and CDC, was drafted by a working group consisting of members from both organizations on the basis of a review of relevant epidemiologic and other scientific studies and established practices in conducting contact investigations.
A glossary of terms and abbreviations used in this report is provided (Box 1 and Appendix A).
This statement provides expanded guidelines concerning investigation of TB exposure and transmission and prevention of future cases of TB through contact investigations.
In addition to the topics discussed previously, these expanded guidelines also discuss multiple related topics (e.g., data management, confidentiality and consent, and human resources).
These guidelines are intended for use by public health officials but also are relevant to others who contribute to TB control efforts.
Although the recommendations pertain to the United States, they might be adaptable for use in other countries that adhere to guidelines issued by the World Health Organization, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, and national TB control programs.
Contact investigations are complicated undertakings that typically require hundreds of interdependent decisions, the majority of which are made on the basis of incomplete data, and dozens of time-consuming interventions.
Making successful decisions during a contact investigation requires use of a complex, multifactor matrix rather than simple decision trees.
For each factor, the predictive value, the relative contribution, and the interactions with other factors have been incompletely studied and understood.
For example, the differences between brief, intense exposure to a contagious patient and lengthy, low-intensity exposure are unknown.
Studies have confirmed the contribution of certain factors: the extent of disease in the index patient, the duration that the source and the contact are together and their proximity, and local air circulation (5).
Multiple observations have demonstrated that the likelihood of TB disease after an exposure is influenced by medical conditions that impair immune competence, and these conditions constitute a critical factor in assigning contact priorities (6).
Other factors that have as yet undetermined importance include the infective burden of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, previous exposure and infection, virulence of the particular M.
tuberculosis strain, and a contact's intrinsic predisposition for infection or disease.
Further, precise measurements (e.g., duration of exposure) rarely are obtainable under ordinary circumstances, and certain factors (e.g., proximity of exposure) can only be approximated, at best.
No safe exposure time to airborne M.
tuberculosis has been established.
If a single bacterium can initiate an infection leading to TB disease, then even the briefest exposure entails a theoretic risk.
However, public health officials must focus their resources on finding exposed persons who are more likely to be infected or to become ill with TB disease.
These guidelines establish a standard framework for assembling information and using the findings to inform decisions for contact investigations, but they do not diminish the value of experienced judgment that is required.
As a practical matter, these guidelines also take into consideration the scope of resources (primarily personnel) that can be allocated for the work.
Methodology A working group consisting of members from the NTCA and CDC reviewed relevant epidemiologic and other scientific studies and established practices in conducting contact investigations to develop this statement.
These published studies provided a scientific basis for the recommendations.
Although a controlled trial has demonstrated the efficacy of treating infected contacts with INH (1), the effectiveness of contact investigations has not been established by a controlled trial or study.
Therefore, the recommendations (Appendix B) have not been rated by quality or quantity of the evidence and reflect expert opinion derived from common practices that have not been tested critically.
These guidelines do not fit every circumstance, and additional considerations beyond those discussed in these guidelines must be taken into account for specific situations.
For example, unusually close exposure (e.g., prolonged exposure in a small, poorly ventilated space or a congregate setting) or exposure among particularly vulnerable populations at risk for TB disease (e.g., children or immunocompromised persons) could justify starting an investigation that would normally not be conducted.
If contacts are likely to become unavailable (e.g., because of departure), then the investigation should receive a higher priority.
Finally, affected populations might experience exaggerated concern regarding TB in their community and demand an investigation.
Structure of this Statement The remainder of this statement is structured in 13 sections, as follows: Decisions to initiate a contact investigation.
This section focuses on deciding when a contact investigation should be undertaken.
Index patients with positive acid-fast bacillus (AFB) sputum-smear results or pulmonary cavities have the highest priority for investigation.
The use of nucleic acid amplification (NAA) tests is discussed in this context.
Investigating the index patient and sites of transmission.
This section outlines methods for investigating the index patient.
Topics discussed include multiple interviews, definition of an infectious period, multiple visits to places that the patient frequented, and the list of contacts (i.e., persons who were exposed).
Assigning priorities to contacts.
This section presents algorithms for assigning priorities to individual contacts for evaluation and treatment.
Priority ranking is determined by the characteristics of individual contacts and the features of the exposure.
When exposure is related to households, congregate living settings, or cough-inducing medical procedures, contacts are designated as high priority.
Because knowledge is insufficient for providing exact recommendations, cut-off points for duration of exposure are not included; state and local program officials should determine cut-off points after considering published results, local experience, and these guidelines.
Diagnostic and public health evaluation of contacts.
The recommended period between most recent exposure and final tuberculin skin testing has been revised; it is 8--10 weeks, not 10--15 weeks as recommended previously (4).
Medical treatment for contacts with LTBI.
This section discusses medical treatment of contacts who have LTBI (6,7).
Effective contact investigations require completion of therapy, which is the single greatest challenge for both patients and health-care providers.
Attention should be focused on treating contacts who are assigned high or medium priority.
When to expand a contact investigation.
This section discusses when contacts initially classified as being a lower priority should be reclassified as having a higher priority and when a contact investigation should be expanded.
Data regarding high- and medium-priority contacts inform this decision.
Communicating through the media.
This section outlines principles for reaching out to media sources.
Media coverage of contact investigations affords the health department an opportunity to increase public knowledge of TB control and the role of the health department.
Data management and evaluation of contact investigations.
This section is the first of three to address health department programmatic tasks.
It discusses data management, with an emphasis on electronic data storage and the use of data for assessing the effectiveness of contact investigations.
Confidentiality and consent in contact investigations.
This section introduces the interrelated responsibilities of the health department in maintaining confidentiality and obtaining patient consent.
Staffing and training for contact investigations.
This section summarizes personnel requirements and training for conducting contact investigations.
Contact investigations in special circumstances.
This section offers suggestions for conducting contact investigations in special settings and circumstances (e.g., schools, hospitals, worksites, and congregate living quarters).
It also reviews distinctions between a contact investigation and an outbreak investigation.
Source-case investigations.
This section addresses source-case investigations, which should be undertaken only when more urgent investigations (see Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation) are being completed successfully.
The effectiveness and outcomes of source-case investigations should be monitored critically because of their general inefficiency.
Other topics.
This section reviews three specialized topics: cultural competency, social network analysis, and recently approved blood tests.
Newly approved blood tests for the diagnosis of M.
tuberculosis infection have been introduced.
If these tests prove to be an improvement over the tuberculin skin test (TST), the science of contact investigations will advance quickly.
Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation Competing demands restrict the resources that can be allocated to contact investigations.
Therefore, public health officials must decide which contact investigations should be assigned a higher priority and which contacts to evaluate first (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts).
A decision to investigate an index patient depends on the presence of factors used to predict the likelihood of transmission (Table 1).
In addition, other information regarding the index patient can influence the investigative strategy.
Factors that Predict Likely Transmission of TB Anatomical Site of Disease With limited exceptions, only patients with pulmonary or laryngeal TB can transmit their infection (8,9).
For contact investigations, pleural disease is grouped with pulmonary disease because sputum cultures can yield M.
tuberculosis even when no lung abnormalities are apparent on a radiograph (10).
Rarely, extrapulmonary TB causes transmission during medical procedures that release aerosols (e.g., autopsy, embalming, and irrigation of a draining abscess) (see Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances) (11--15) Sputum Bacteriology Relative infectiousness has been associated with positive sputum culture results and is highest when the smear results are also positive (16--19).
The significance of results from respiratory specimens other than expectorated sputum (e.g., bronchial washings or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid) is undetermined.
Experts recommend that these specimens be regarded as equivalent to sputum (20).
Radiographic Findings Patients who have lung cavities observed on a chest radiograph typically are more infectious than patients with noncavitary pulmonary disease (15,16,21).
This is an independent predictor after bacteriologic findings are taken into account.
The importance of small lung cavities that are detectable with computerized tomography (CT) but not with plain radiography is undetermined.
Less commonly, instances of highly contagious endobroncheal TB in severely immunocompromised patients who temporarily had normal chest radiographs have contributed to outbreaks.
The frequency and relative importance of such instances is unknown, but in one group of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)--infected TB patients, 3% of those who had positive sputum smears had normal chest radiographs at the time of diagnosis (22,23).
Behaviors That Increase Aerosolization of Respiratory Secretions Cough frequency and severity are not predictive of contagiousness (24).
However, singing is associated with TB transmission (25--27).
Sociability of the index patient might contribute to contagiousness because of the increased number of contacts and the intensity of exposure.
Contact investigations concerning pediatric cases should be undertaken only in such unusual circumstances (see Source-Case Investigations).
HIV Status TB patients who are HIV-infected with low CD4 T-cell counts frequently have chest radiographic findings that are not typical of pulmonary TB.
In particular, they are more likely than TB patients who are not HIV-infected to have mediastinal adenopathy and less likely to have upper-lobe infiltrates and cavities (30).
Atypical radiographic findings increase the potential for delayed diagnosis, which increases transmission.
However, HIV-infected patients who have pulmonary or laryngeal TB are, on average, as contagious as TB patients who are not HIV-infected (31,32).
Administration of Effective Treatment That TB patients rapidly become less contagious after starting effective chemotherapy has been corroborated by measuring the number of viable M.
tuberculosis organisms in sputa and by observing infection rates in household contacts (33--36).
However, the exact rate of decrease cannot be predicted for individual patients, and an arbitrary determination is required for each.
Guinea pigs exposed to exhaust air from a TB ward with patients receiving chemotherapy were much more likely to be infected by drug-resistant organisms (8), which suggests that drug resistance can delay effective bactericidal activity and prolong contagiousness.
Initiating a Contact Investigation A contact investigation should be considered if the index patient has confirmed or suspected pulmonary, laryngeal, or pleural TB (Figure 1).
tuberculosis is negative (37).
If AFB are not detected by microscopy of three sputum smears, an investigation still is recommended if the chest radiograph (i.e., the plain view or a simple tomograph) indicates the presence of cavities in the lung.
Parenchymal cavities of limited size that can be detected only by computerized imaging techniques (i.e., CT, computerized axial tomography scan, or magnetic resonance imaging of the chest) are not included in this recommendation.
When sputum samples have not been collected, either because of an oversight or as a result of the patient's inability to expectorate, results from other types of respiratory specimens (e.g., gastric aspirates or bronchoalveolar lavage) may be interpreted in the same way as in the above recommendations.
However, whenever feasible, sputum samples should be collected (through sputum induction, if necessary) before initiating chemotherapy.
Contact investigations of persons with AFB smear or culture-positive sputum and cavitary TB are assigned the highest priority.
However, even if these conditions are not present, contact investigations should be considered if a chest radiograph is consistent with pulmonary TB.
Whether to initiate other investigations depends on the availability of resources to be allocated and achievement of objectives for higher priority contact investigations.
A positive result from an approved NAA test supports a decision to initiate an investigation.
Because waiting for a sputum or respiratory culture result delays initiation of contact investigations, delay should be avoided if any contacts are especially vulnerable or susceptible to TB disease (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts).
Investigations typically should not be initiated for contacts of index patients who have suspected TB disease and minimal findings in support of a diagnosis of pulmonary TB.
Exceptions can be justified during outbreak investigations (see Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances), especially when vulnerable or susceptible contacts are identified or during a source-case investigation (see Source-Case Investigations).
Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission Comprehensive information regarding an index patient is the foundation of a contact investigation.
This information includes disease characteristics, onset time of illness, names of contacts, exposure locations, and current medical factors (e.g., initiation of effective treatment and drug susceptibility results).
Health departments are responsible for conducting TB contact investigations.
Having written policies and procedures for investigations improve the efficiency and uniformity of investigations.
Establishing trust and consistent rapport between public health workers and patients is critical to gain full information and long-term cooperation during treatment.
Good interview skills can be taught and learned skills improved with practice.
Workers assigned these tasks should be trained in interview methods and tutored on the job (see Staffing and Training for Contact Investigations and Contact Investigations in Special Situations).
The majority of TB patients in the United States were born in other countries, and their fluency in English often is insufficient for productive interviews to be conducted in English.
Patients should be interviewed by persons who are fluent in their primary language.
If this is not possible, health departments should provide interpretation services.
Preinterview Phase Background information regarding the patient and the circumstances of the illness should be gathered in preparation for the first interview.
One source is the current medical record (38).
Other sources are the physician who reported the case and (if the patient is in a hospital) the infection control nurse.
The information in the medical record can be disclosed to public health authorities under exemptions in the Privacy Rule of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 ( (39).
The patient's name should be matched to prior TB registries and to the surveillance database to determine if the patient has been previously listed.
Multiple factors are relevant to a contact investigation, including the following: history of previous exposure to TB, history of previous TB disease and treatment, anatomical sites of TB disease, symptoms of the illness, date of onset, chest radiograph results, other results of diagnostic imaging studies, diagnostic specimens that were sent for histologic or bacteriologic analysis (with dates, specimen tracking numbers, and destinations), current bacteriologic results, anti-TB chemotherapy regimen (with dates, medications, dosages, and treatment plan), results from HIV testing, the patient's concurrent medical conditions (e.g., renal failure implies that a renal dialysis center might be part of the patient's recent experience), other diagnoses (e.g., substance abuse, mental illness, or dementia) that impinge directly on the interview, and identifying demographic information (e.g., residence, employment, first language, given name and street names, aliases, date of birth, telephone numbers, other electronic links, and next-of-kin or emergency connections).
Determining the Infectious Period Determining the infectious period focuses the investigation on those contacts most likely to be at risk for infection and sets the timeframe for testing contacts.
Because the start of the infectious period cannot be determined with precision by available methods, a practical estimation is necessary.
On the basis of expert opinion, an assigned start that is 3 months before a TB diagnosis is recommended (Table 2).
In certain circumstances, an even earlier start should be used.
Information from the patient interview and from other sources should be assembled to assist in estimating the infectious period.
Helpful details are the approximate dates that TB symptoms were noticed, mycobacteriologic results, and extent of disease (especially the presence of large lung cavities, which imply prolonged illness and infectiousness) (40,41).
The infectious period is closed when the following criteria are satisfied: 1) effective treatment (as demonstrated by M.
The exposure period for individual contacts is determined by how much time they spent with the index patient during the infectious period.
Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) can extend infectiousness if the treatment regimen is ineffective.
Any index patient with signs of extended infectiousness should be continually reassessed for recent contacts.
More stringent criteria should be applied for setting the end of the infectious period if particularly susceptible contacts are involved.
Interviewing the Patient In addition to setting the direction for the contact investigation, the first interview provides opportunities for the patient to acquire information regarding TB and its control and for the public health worker to learn how to provide treatment and specific care for the patient.
The interview should be conducted in person (i.e., face to face) in the hospital, the TB clinic, the patient's home, or a convenient location that accommodates the patient's right to privacy.
A minimum of two interviews is recommended.
At the first interview, the index patient is unlikely to be oriented to the contact investigation because of social stresses related to the illness (e.g., fear of disability, death, or rejection by friends and family).
The second interview is conducted 1--2 weeks later, when the patient has had time to adjust to the disruptions caused by the illness and has become accustomed to the interviewer, which facilitates a two-way exchange.
The number of additional interviews required depends on the amount of information needed and the time required to develop consistent rapport.
Interviewing skills are crucial because the patient might be reluctant to share vital information stemming from concerns regarding disease-associated stigma, embarrassment, or illegal activities.
Interviewing skills require training and periodic on-the-job tutoring.
Only trained personnel should interview index patients.
In addition to standard procedures for interviewing TB patients (43), the following general principles should be considered: Establishing rapport.
Respect should be demonstrated by assuring privacy during the interview.
Establishing respect is critical so rapport can be built.
The interviewer should display official identification and explain the reasons for the interview.
The interviewer should also discuss confidentiality and privacy (see Confidentiality and Consent in Contact Investigations) in frank terms that help the patient decide how to share information.
These topics should be discussed several times during the interview to stress their importance.
Information exchange.
The interviewer should confirm information from the preinterview phase, obtain missing information, and resolve disparities.
Obtaining information regarding how to locate the patient throughout treatment is crucial.
The beginning of the infectious period should be set from the information derived from this exchange.
Transmission settings.
Information regarding transmission settings that the patient attended during the infectious period is needed for listing the contacts and assigning priorities (see Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission).
Topics to discuss include where the patient spent nights, met with friends, worked, ate, visited, and sought health care.
The interviewer should ask specifically regarding congregate settings (e.g., high school, university, correctional facility, homeless shelter, or nursing home).
The interviewer also should inquire regarding routine and nonroutine travel.
Contacts not previously identified might have been exposed during the patient's infectious period while the patient was traveling.
Routine travel modes (e.g., carpool) could also be settings in which contacts were exposed.
Sites of transmission.
The key to efficient contact investigations is setting priorities.
The investigator must constantly balance available resources, especially staff time, with expected yield.
However, the interview with the patient should be as comprehensive as possible.
All possible sites of transmission should be listed, regardless of how long the patient spent at the sites.
Priorities should be set on the basis of the time spent by the index patient, and decisions regarding investigation of the sites and contacts should be made after all the information has been collected (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts and When to Expand a Contact Investigation).
List of contacts.
For each transmission setting, the interviewer should ask for the names of contacts and the approximate types, frequencies, and durations of exposure.
Ideal information regarding each contact includes full name, aliases or street names, a physical description, location and communication information (e.g., addresses and telephone numbers), and current general health.
The interviewer might need to spend more time asking regarding contacts who are difficult for the patient to remember.
Recent illnesses among contacts should be discussed.
The interviewer should express appreciation, provide an overview of the processes in the contact investigation, and remind the patient regarding confidentiality and its limits.
The patient especially should be told how site visits are conducted and confidentiality protected.
An appointment for the next interview should be set within the context of the schedule for medical care.
Follow-up interviews.
The best setting for the second and subsequent interviews is the patient's residence.
If the original interviewer senses incomplete rapport with the index patient, a second interviewer can be assigned.
The follow-up interviews are extensions of the initial interview.
If the interviewer senses resistance to meeting in certain places or discussing those places, making site visits to those places might facilitate identification of additional contacts whom the index patient had not remembered or wanted to name.
Proxy Interview Proxy interviews can build on the information provided by the index patient and are essential when the patient cannot be interviewed.
Key proxy informants are those likely to know the patient's practices, habits, and behaviors; informants are needed from each sphere of the patient's life (e.g., home, work, and leisure).
However, because proxy interviews jeopardize patient confidentiality, TB control programs should establish clear guidelines for these interviews that recognize the challenge of maintaining confidentiality.
Field Investigation Site visits are complementary to interviewing.
They add contacts to the list and are the most reliable source of information regarding transmission settings (17).
Failure to visit all potential sites of transmission has contributed to TB outbreaks (25,44).
Visiting the index patient's residence is especially helpful for finding children who are contacts (17,38).
Each site visit creates opportunities to interview the index patient again, interview and test contacts, collect diagnostic sputum specimens, schedule clinic visits, and provide education.
Sometimes environmental clues (e.g., toys suggesting the presence of children) create new directions for an investigation.
Certain sites (e.g., congregate settings) require special arrangements to visit (see Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances).
Physical conditions at each setting contribute to the likelihood of transmission.
Pertinent details include room sizes, ventilation systems, and airflow patterns.
These factors should be considered in the context of how often and how long the index patient was in each setting.
Follow-Up Steps A continuing investigation is shaped by frequent reassessments of ongoing results (e.g., secondary TB cases and the estimated infection rate for groups of contacts).
Notification and follow-up communications with public health officials in other jurisdictions should be arranged for out-of-area contacts.
The following organizations provide resources to make referrals for contacts and index patients who migrate across the U.S.-Mexican border between the United States and Mexico: Cure TB  a referral program provided by the County of San Diego for TB patients and their contacts who travel between the United States and Mexico; Migrant Clinicians' Network (TB Net)  a multinational TB patient tracking and referral project designed to work with mobile, underserved populations; and Referral System for Binational TB Patients Pilot Project  a collaborative effort between CDC and the National Tuberculosis Program in Mexico to improve continuity of care for TB patients migrating across the border (see Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances).
Specific Investigation Plan The investigation plan starts with information gathered in the interviews and site visits; it includes a registry of the contacts and their assigned priorities (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts and Medical Treatment for Contacts with LTBI).
A written timeline (Table 3) sets expectations for monitoring the progress of the investigation and informs public health officials whether additional resources are needed for finding, evaluating, and treating the high- and medium-priority contacts.
The plan is a pragmatic work in progress and should be revised if additional information indicates a need (see When to Expand a Contact Investigation); it is part of the permanent record of the overall investigation for later review and program evaluation.
Data from the investigation should be recorded on standardized forms (see Data Management and Evaluation of Contact Investigations).
Assigning Priorities to Contacts The ideal goal would be to distinguish all recently infected contacts from those who are not infected and prevent TB disease by treating those with infection.
In practice, existing technology and methods cannot achieve this goal.
For example, although a relatively brief exposure can lead to M.
tuberculosis infection and disease (45), certain contacts are not infected even after long periods of intensive exposure.
Not all contacts with substantial exposure are identified during the contact investigation.
Finally, available tests for M.
tuberculosis infection lack sensitivity and specificity and do not differentiate between persons recently or remotely infected.
Increasing the intensity and duration of exposure usually increases the likelihood of recent M.
tuberculosis infection in contacts.
The skin test cannot discriminate between recent and old infections, and including contacts who have had minimal exposure increases the workload while it decreases the public health value of finding positive skin test results.
A positive result in contacts with minimal exposure is more likely to be the result of an old infection or nonspecific tuberculin sensitivity (46).
For optimal efficiency, priorities should be assigned to contacts, and resources should be allocated to complete all investigative steps for high- and medium-priority contacts.
Priorities are based on the likelihood of infection and the potential hazards to the individual contact if infected.
The priority scheme directs resources to selecting contacts who have secondary cases of TB disease, have recent M.
tuberculosis infection and so are most likely to benefit from treatment, and are most likely to become ill with TB disease if they are infected (i.e., susceptible contacts) or who could suffer severe morbidity if they have TB disease (i.e., vulnerable contacts).
Factors for Assigning Contact Priorities Characteristics of the Index Patient The decision to initiate a contact investigation is determined on the basis of the characteristics of the index patient (see Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation).
Contacts of a more infectious index patient (e.g., one with AFB sputum smear positive TB) should be assigned a higher priority than those of a less infectious one because contacts of the more infectious patient are more likely to have recent infection or TB disease (19,40,47--50).
Characteristics of Contacts Intrinsic and acquired conditions of the contact affect the likelihood of TB disease progression after infection, although the predictive value of certain conditions (e.g., being underweight for height) is imprecise as the sole basis for assigning priorities (51,52).
Other medical conditions also might affect the probability of TB disease after infection.
After infection, TB disease is more likely to occur in younger children; the incubation or latency period is briefer; and lethal, invasive forms of the disease are more common (53--58).
The age-specific incidence of disease for children who have positive skin test results declines through age 4 years (56).
A study of 82,269 tuberculin reactors aged 1--18 years who were control subjects in a Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) trial* in Puerto Rico indicated that peak incidence of TB occurred among children aged 1--4 years (56).
Immune status.
HIV infection results in the progression of M.
tuberculosis infection to TB disease more frequently and more rapidly than any other known factor, with disease rates estimated at 35--162 per 1,000 person-years of observation and a greater likelihood of disseminated and extrapulmonary disease (60--64).
HIV-infected contacts are assigned high priority, and, starting at the time of the initial encounter, extra vigilance for TB disease is recommended.
Other immunosuppressive agents, including multiple cancer chemotherapy agents, antirejection drugs for organ transplantation, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) antagonists, increase the likelihood of TB disease after infection; these contacts also are assigned a high priority (65).
Other medical conditions.
Being underweight for their height has been reported as a weakly predictive factor promoting progression to TB disease (66); however, assessing weight is not a practical approach for assigning priorities.
Other medical conditions that can be considered in assigning priorities include silicosis, diabetes mellitus, and status after gastrectomy or jejunoileal bypass surgery (67--76).
Air volume, exhaust rate, and circulation predict the likelihood of transmission in an enclosed space.
In large indoor settings, because of diffusion and local circulation patterns, the degree of proximity between contacts and the index patient can influence the likelihood of transmission.
Other subtle environmental factors (e.g., humidity and light) are impractical to incorporate into decision making.
The terms "close" and "casual," which are frequently used to describe exposures and contacts, have not been defined uniformly and therefore are not useful for these guidelines.
This has the added advantage of familiarity for the index patient and contacts, which enables them to provide clearer information.
The volume of air shared between an infectious TB patient and contacts dilutes the infectious particles, although this relationship has not been validated entirely by epidemiologic results (15,77--79).
Local circulation and overall room ventilation also dilute infectious particles, but both factors can redirect exposure into spaces that were not visited by the index patient (80--83).
These factors have to be considered.
The likelihood of infection depends on the intensity, frequency, and duration of exposure (16,17,40,84).
One set of criteria for estimating risk after exposure to a person with pulmonary TB without lung cavities includes a cut-off of 120 hours of exposure per month (84).
However, for any specific setting, index patient, and contacts, the optimal cut-off duration is undetermined.
Administratively determined durations derived from local experience are recommended, with frequent reassessments on the basis of results.
Classification of Contacts Priorities for contact investigation are determined on the basis of the characteristics of the index patient, susceptibility and vulnerability of contacts, and circumstances of the exposures (Figures 2--4).
Any contacts who are not classified as high or medium priority are assigned a low priority.
Because priority assignments are practical approximations derived from imperfect information, priority classifications should be reconsidered throughout the investigation as findings are analyzed (see When to Expand a Contact Investigation).
Diagnostic and Public Health Evaluation of Contacts On average, 10 contacts are listed for each person with a case of infectious TB in the United States (50,59,89).
Approximately 20%--30% of all contacts have LTBI, and 1% have TB disease (50).
Of those contacts who ultimately will have TB disease, approximately half acquire disease in the first year after exposure (90,91).
For this reason, contact investigations constitute a crucial prevention strategy.
Identifying TB disease and LTBI efficiently during an investigation requires identifying, locating, and evaluating high- and medium-priority contacts who are most at risk.
Because they have legally mandated responsibilities for disease control, health departments should establish systems for comprehensive TB contact investigations.
In certain jurisdictions, legal measures are in place to ensure that evaluation and follow-up of contacts occur.
The use of existing communicable disease laws that protect the health of the community (if applicable to contacts) should be considered for contacts who decline examinations, with the least restrictive measures applied first.
Initial Assessment of Contacts During the initial contact encounter, which should be accomplished within 3 working days of the contact having been listed the investigation, the investigator gathers background health information and makes a face-to-face assessment of the person's health.
Administering a skin test at this time accelerates the diagnostic evaluation.
The health department record should include: previous M.
tuberculosis infection or disease and related treatment; contact's verbal report and documentation of previous TST results; current symptoms of TB illness (e.g., cough, chest pain, hemoptysis, fever, chills, night sweats, appetite loss, weight loss, malaise, or easy fatigability); medical conditions or risk factors making TB disease more likely (e.g., HIV infection, intravenous drug use, diabetes mellitus, silicosis, prolonged corticosteroid therapy, other immunosuppressive therapy, head or neck cancer, hematological and reticuloendothelial diseases, end-stage renal disease, intestinal bypass or gastrectomy, chronic malabsorption syndrome, or low body weight); mental health disorders (e.g., psychiatric illnesses and substance abuse disorders); type, duration, and intensity of TB exposure; and sociodemographic factors (e.g., age, race or ethnicity, residence, and country of birth) (see Data Management and Evaluation of Contact Investigations).
Contacts who do not know their HIV-infection status should be offered HIV counseling and testing.
Each contact should be interviewed regarding social, emotional, and practical matters that might hinder their participation (e.g., work or travel).
When initial information has been collected, priority assignments should be reassessed for each contact, and a medical plan for diagnostic tests and possible treatment can be formulated for high- and medium-priority contacts.
Low-priority contacts should not be included unless resources permit and the program is meeting its performance goals.
Because immigrants are likely to settle in communities in which persons of similar origin reside, multiple contacts of foreign-born index patients also are foreign born.
Contacts who come from countries where both BCG vaccination and TB are common are more likely than other immigrants to have positive skin tests results when they arrive in the United States.
They also are more likely to demonstrate the booster phenomenon on a postexposure test (17,40).
Although valuable in preventing severe forms of disease in young children in countries where TB is endemic, BCG vaccination provides imperfect protection and causes tuberculin sensitivity in certain recipients for a variable period of time (93,94).
TSTs cannot distinguish reactions related to remote infection or BCG vaccination from those caused by recent infection with M.
tuberculosis; boosting related to BCG or remote infection compounds the interpretation of positive results (95).
A positive TST in a foreign-born or BCG-vaccinated person should be interpreted as evidence of recent M.
tuberculosis infection in contacts of persons with infectious cases.
These contacts should be evaluated for TB disease and offered a course of treatment for LTBI.
Voluntary HIV Counseling, Testing, and Referral Approximately 9% of TB patients in the United States have HIV infection at the time of TB diagnosis, with 16% of TB patients aged 25--44 years having HIV infection (96).
In addition, an estimated 275,000 persons in the United States are unaware they have HIV infection (97).
The majority of TB contacts have not been tested for HIV infection (98).
Contacts of HIV-infected index TB patients are more likely to be HIV infected than contacts of HIV-negative patients (99).
Voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and referral for contacts are key steps in providing optimal care, especially in relation to TB (100,101).
Systems for achieving convenient HIV-related services require collaboration with health department HIV-AIDS programs.
This also can improve adherence to national guidance for these activities (100).
Tuberculin Skin Testing All contacts classified as having high or medium priority who do not have a documented previous positive TST result or previous TB disease should receive a skin test at the initial encounter.
This detects boosting of sensitivity and can avoid misclassifying future positive results as new infections.
The two-step procedure typically should not be used for testing contacts; a contact whose second test result is positive after an initial negative result should be classified as recently infected.
Postexposure Tuberculin Skin Testing Among persons who have been sensitized by M.
tuberculosis infection, the intradermal tuberculin from the skin test can result in a delayed-type (cellular) hypersensitivity reaction.
Depending on the source of recommendations, the estimated interval between infection and detectable skin test reactivity (referred to as the window period) is 2--12 weeks (6,95).
However, reinterpretation of data collected previously indicates that 8 weeks is the outer limit of this window period (46,102--106).
Consequently, NTCA and CDC recommend that the window period be decreased to 8--10 weeks after exposure ends.
Low-priority contacts have had limited exposure to the index patient and a low probability of recent infection; a positive result from a second skin test among these contacts would more likely represent boosting of sensitivity.
A single skin test, probably at the end of the window period, is preferred for these contacts.
However, diagnostic evaluation of any contact who has TB symptoms should be immediate, regardless of skin test results.
Nonspecific or remote delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response to tuberculin (PPD in the skin test) occasionally wanes or disappears over time.
Subsequent TSTs can restore responsiveness; this is called boosting or the booster phenomenon (95,107).
For contacts who receive two skin tests, the booster phenomenon can be misinterpreted as evidence of recent infection.
This misinterpretation is more likely to occur for foreign-born contacts than it is for those born in the United States (17,108).
Skin test conversion refers to a change from a negative to a positive result.
To increase the relative certainty that the person has been infected with M.
tuberculosis in the interval between tests, the standard U.S.
definition for conversion includes a maximum time (2 years) between skin tests and a minimum increase (10 mm) in reaction size (6,34).
With the 5 mm cut-off size used for interpreting any single skin test result obtained in contact investigations, the standard definition for conversion typically is irrelevant.
For these guidelines, contacts who have a positive result after a previous negative result are said to have had a change in tuberculin status from negative to positive.
Collection of specimens for mycobacteriologic testing (e.g., sputa) is decided on a case-by-case basis and is not recommended for healthy contacts with normal chest radiographs.
All contacts who are assigned a high priority because of special susceptibility or vulnerability to TB disease should undergo further examination and diagnostic testing regardless of whether they have a positive skin test result or are ill.
tuberculosis infection (i.e., window prophylaxis) is recommended after TB disease has been excluded by medical examination.
After a second skin test administered 8--10 weeks postexposure, the decision to treat is reconsidered.
If the second test result is negative, treatment should be discontinued and the child, if healthy, should be discharged from medical supervision.
If the second result is positive, the full course of treatment for latent M.
tuberculosis infection should be completed.
Contacts with immunocompromising conditions (e.g., HIV infection) should receive similar care (Figure 6).
tuberculosis infection is recommended after a medical evaluation to exclude TB disease (16).
The decision to administer complete treatment can be modified by other evidence concerning the extent of transmission that was estimated from the contact investigation data.
Treatment is recommended for contacts who receive a diagnosis of latent M.
tuberculosis infection.
Evaluation of low-priority contacts who are being tested can be scheduled with more flexibility (Figure 8).
The skin test may be delayed until after the window period, thereby negating the need for a second test.
Treatment is also recommended for these contacts if they receive a diagnosis of latent M.
tuberculosis infection.
The risk for TB disease is undetermined for contacts with documentation of a previous positive TST result (whether infection was treated) or TB disease (Figure 9).
Documentation is recommended before making decisions from a contact's verbal report.
Contacts who report a history of infection or disease but who do not have documentation are recommended for the standard algorithm (Figure 8).
Contacts who are immunocompromised or otherwise susceptible are recommended for diagnostic testing to exclude TB disease and for a full course of treatment for latent M.
tuberculosis infection after TB disease has been excluded, regardless of their previous TB history and documentation.
Healthy contacts who have a documented previous positive skin test result but have not been treated for LTBI can be considered for treatment as part of the contact investigation.
Any contact who is to be treated for LTBI should have a chest radiograph to exclude TB disease before starting treatment.
Certain guidance regarding collecting historic information from TB patients or contacts stipulates confirmation of previous TST results (e.g., a documented result from a TST) (4).
The decision regarding requiring documentation for a specific detail involves a subtle balance.
Memory regarding medical history might be weak or distorted, even among medically trained persons.
However, the accuracy of details reported by a TB patient or contact might not be relevant for providing medical care or collecting data.
For previous TST results, patients can be confused regarding details from their history; routine skin tests sometimes are administered at the same time as vaccinations, and foreign-born patients might confuse a skin test with BCG vaccination or streptomycin injections.
For contacts (but not patients with confirmed TB), a skin test result is critical, and documentation of a previous positive result should be obtained before omitting the skin test from the diagnostic evaluation.
Treatment for Contacts with LTBI The direct benefits of contact investigations include 1) finding additional TB disease cases (thus potentially interrupting further transmission) and 2) finding and treating persons with LTBI.
One of the national health objectives for 2010 (objective no.
14-13) is to complete treatment in 85% of contacts who have LTBI (107).
However, reported rates of treatment initiation and completion have fallen short of national objectives (17,50,109,110).
To increase these rates, health department TB control programs must invest in systems for increasing the numbers of infected contacts who are completely treated.
These include 1) focusing resources on the contacts most in need of treatment; 2) monitoring treatment, including that of contacts who receive care outside the health department; and 3) providing directly observed therapy (DOT), incentives, and enablers.
Contacts identified as having a positive TST result are regarded as recently infected with M.
tuberculosis, which puts them at heightened risk for TB disease (6,7).
Moreover, contacts with greater durations or intensities of exposure are more likely both to be infected and to have TB disease if infected.
A focus first on high-priority and next on medium-priority contacts is recommended in allocating resources for starting and completing treatment of contacts.
Decisions to treat contacts who have documentation of a previous positive skin test result or TB disease for presumed LTBI must be individualized because their risk for TB disease is unknown.
Considerations for the decision include previous treatment for LTBI, medical conditions putting the contact at risk for TB disease, and the duration and intensity of exposure.
Treatment of presumed LTBI is recommended for all HIV-infected contacts in this situation (after TB disease has been excluded), whether they received treatment previously.
Window-Period Prophylaxis Treatment during the window period (see Diagnostic and Public Health Evaluation of Contacts) has been recommended for susceptible and vulnerable contacts to prevent rapidly emerging TB disease (4,6,56,61,111).
The evidence for this practice is inferential, but all models and theories support it.
Groups of contacts who are likely to benefit from a full course of treatment (beyond just window-period treatment) include those with HIV infection, those taking immunosuppressive therapy for organ transplantation, and persons taking TNF-a antagonists (6,61,62,65).
TB disease having been ruled out, prophylactic treatment of presumed M.
tuberculosis infection is recommended as an option for all these groups.
The decision as to whether to treat individual contacts who have negative skin test results should take into consideration two factors: the frequency, duration, and intensity of exposure (even brief exposure to a highly contagious TB patient in a confined space probably warrants the same concern as extended exposure to less contagious patients); and corroborative evidence of transmission from the index patient (a substantial fraction of contacts having positive skin test results implies contagiousness).
Treatment after Exposure to Drug-Resistant TB Guidelines for providing care to contacts of drug-resistant TB patients and selecting treatment regimens have been published (6,7,112).
Drug susceptibility results for the M.
tuberculosis isolate from the index patient (i.e., the presumed source of infection) are necessary for selecting or modifying the treatment regimen for the exposed contact.
Resistance only to INH among the first line agents leaves the option of 4 months of daily rifampin.
Additional resistance to rifampin constitutes MDR TB.
None of the potential regimens for persons likely infected with MDR TB has been tested fully for efficacy, and these regimens are often poorly tolerated.
For these reasons, consultation with a physician with expertise in this area is recommended for selecting or modifying a regimen and managing the care of contacts (6).
Contacts who have received a diagnosis of infection attributed to MDR TB should be monitored for 2 years after exposure; guidelines for monitoring these contacts have been published previously (6).
Adherence to Treatment One of the national health objectives for 2010 is to achieve a treatment completion rate of 85% for infected contacts who start treatment (objective no.
14-13) (107).
However, operational studies indicate that this objective is not being achieved (17,110).
Although DOT improves completion rates (17), it is a resource-intensive intervention that might not be feasible for all infected contacts.
Checking monthly or more often for adherence and adverse effects of treatment by home visits, pill counts, or clinic appointments is recommended for contacts taking self-supervised treatment.
All contacts being treated for infection should be evaluated in person by a health-care provider at least monthly.
Incentives (e.g., food coupons or toys for children) and enablers (e.g., transportation vouchers to go to the clinic or pharmacy) are recommended as aids to adherence.
Incentives provide simple rewards whereas enablers increase a patient's opportunities for adherence.
Education regarding TB, its treatment, and the signs of adverse drug effects should be part of each patient encounter.
When to Expand a Contact Investigation A graduated approach to contact investigations (i.e., a concentric circles model) has been recommended previously (4,5,113).
With this model, if data indicate that contacts with the greatest exposure have an infection rate greater than would be expected in their community, contacts with progressively less exposure are sought.
The contact investigation would expand until the rate of positive skin test results for the contacts was indistinguishable from the prevalence of positive results in the community (5).
In addition to its simplicity and intuitive appeal, an advantage to this approach is that contacts with less exposure are not sought until evidence of transmission exists.
Disadvantages are that 1) surrogates for estimating exposure (e.g., living in the same household) often do not predict the chance of infection, 2) the susceptibility and vulnerability of contacts are not accommodated by the model, and 3) the estimated prevalence for tuberculin sensitivity in a specific community generally is unknown.
Recent operational studies indicate that health departments are not meeting their objectives for high- and medium-priority contacts (17,50,109).
In these settings, contact investigations generally should not be expanded beyond high- and medium-priority contacts.
However, if data from an investigation indicate more transmission than anticipated, more contacts might need to be included.
In the absence of evidence of recent transmission, an investigation should not be expanded to lower priority contacts.
When program-evaluation objectives are not being achieved, a contact investigation should be expanded only in exceptional circumstances, generally those involving highly infectious persons with high rates of infection among contacts or evidence for secondary cases and secondary transmission.
Expanded investigations must be accompanied by efforts to ensure completion of therapy.
The strategy for expanding an investigation should be derived from the data obtained from the investigation previously (4,5,43).
The threshold for including a specific contact thereby is decreased.
As in the initial investigation, results should be reviewed at least weekly so the strategy can be reassessed.
At times, results from an investigation indicate a need for expansion that available resources do not permit.
In these situations, seeking consultation and assistance from the next higher level in public health administration (e.g., the county health department consults with the state health department) is recommended.
Consultation offers an objective review of strategy and results, additional expertise, and a potential opportunity to obtain personnel or funds for meeting unmet needs.
Communicating Through the Media Routine contact investigations, which have perhaps a dozen contacts, are not usually considered newsworthy.
However, certain contact investigations have potential for sensational coverage and attract attention from the media.
Typical examples include situations involving numerous contacts (especially children), occurring in public settings (e.g., schools, hospitals, prisons), occurring in workplaces, associated with TB fatalities, or associated with drug-resistant TB.
Reasons for Participating in Media Coverage Media coverage can provide both advantages and drawbacks for the health department, and careful planning is recommended before communicating with reporters.
Favorable, accurate coverage educates the public regarding the nature of TB, reminds the public of the continued presence of TB in the community, provides a complementary method to alert exposed contacts of the need for seeking a medical evaluation, relieves unfounded public fears regarding TB, illustrates the health department's leadership in communicable disease control, ensures that constructive public inquiries are directed to the health department, and validates the need for public resources to be directed to disease control.
Potential drawbacks of media coverage are that such coverage can increase public anxiety, especially after alarmist or inaccurate messages, lead unexposed persons seeking unnecessary health care because of a perceived threat, contribute to unfavorable views of the health department (e.g., because of perceived delays in responding to the TB problem), contribute to spread of misinformation regarding the nature of TB, trigger unconstructive public inquiries, and lead to disclosure of confidential information (e.g., patient identity).
Strategy for Media Coverage Anticipatory preparation of clear media messages, coordinated among all parties for clarity and consistency, is recommended.
The majority of health departments have formal policies and systems for arranging media communications, and TB control officials are advised to work with their media-communications services in securing training and preparing media messages anticipating news coverage.
In certain instances, this will require coordination among local, state, and federal public health organizations.
Issuing a press release in advance of any other media coverage is recommended so as to provide clear, accurate messages from the start.
Waiting until a story reaches the media through other sources leaves the health department reacting to inaccuracies in the story and could lend credence to a perception that information is being withheld from the public.
Certain newsworthy contact investigations involve collaborators outside of the health department because of the setting (e.g., a homeless shelter).
The administrators of these settings are likely to have concerns, distinct from the public health agenda, regarding media coverage.
For example, a hospital administrator might worry that reports of suspected TB exposures in the hospital will create public distrust of the hospital.
Collaboration on media messages is a difficult but necessary part of the overall partnership between the hospital (in this example) and the health department.
Early discussions regarding media coverage are recommended for reducing later misunderstandings.
In addition, development of a list of communication objectives also is recommended in preparing for media inquiries.
Data Management and Evaluation of Contact Investigations Data collection related to contact investigations has three broad purposes: 1) management of care and follow-up for individual index patients and contacts, 2) epidemiologic analysis of an investigation in progress and investigations overall, and 3) program evaluation using performance indicators that reflect performance objectives.
A systematic, consistent approach to data collection, organization, analysis, and dissemination is required (114--117).
Data collection and storage entail both substantial work and an investment in systems to obtain full benefits from the efforts.
Selecting data for inclusion requires balancing the extra work of collecting data against the lost information if data are not collected.
If data are collected but not studied and used when decisions are made, then data collection is a wasted effort.
The most efficient strategy for determining which data to collect is to work back from the intended uses of the data.
Reasons Contact Investigation Data Are Needed For each index patient and the patient's associated contacts, a broad amount of demographic, epidemiologic, historic, and medical information is needed for providing comprehensive care (Tables 2, 4, and 5).
Data on certain process steps are necessary for monitoring whether the contact investigation is keeping to timeline objectives (e.g., how soon after listing the skin test is administered to a contact).
Aggregated data collected during an investigation inform public health officials whether the investigation is on time and complete.
The ongoing analysis of data also contributes to reassessment of the strategy used in the investigation (e.g., whether the infection rate was greater for contacts believed to have more exposure).
Data from a completed investigation and from all investigations in a fixed period (e.g., 6 months) might demonstrate progress in meeting program objectives (Box 2).
However, these core measurements for program evaluation cannot directly demonstrate why particular objectives were not achieved.
If the data are structured and stored in formats that permit detailed retrospective review, then the reasons for problems can be studied.
CDC's Framework for Program Evaluation in Public Health is recommended for assessing the overall activities of contact investigations (118).
Data definitions are crucial for consistency and subsequent mutual comprehension of analytic results.
However, detailed definitions that accommodate every contingency defeat the simplicity required for an efficient system.
Data definitions are best when they satisfy the most important contingencies.
This requires a trade-off between completeness and clarity.
As with the initial selection of data, working back from the intended uses of the data is helpful in deciding how much detail the data definitions should have.
Routine data collection can indicate whether the priority assignments of contacts were a good match to the final results (e.g., infection rates and achievement of timelines).
These data cannot determine whether all contacts with substantial exposure were included in the original list (i.e., whether certain contacts who should have been ranked as high priority were missed completely because of gaps in the investigation).
Methods for Data Collection and Storage Direct computer entry of all contact investigation data is recommended.
Systems designed to increase data quality (e.g., through use of error checking rules) are preferred.
However, technologic and resource limitations are likely to require at least partial use of paper forms and subsequent transfer at a computer console, which requires a greater level of data quality assurance because of potential errors in the transfer.
Security precautions for both paper copy and electronically generated data should be commensurate with the confidentiality of the information.
Ongoing training concerning systems is recommended for personnel who collect or use the data.
A comprehensive U.S.
software system for contact investigation data collection and storage has not been implemented.
Health department officials are advised to borrow working systems from other jurisdictions that have similar TB control programs.
Any system should incorporate these recommendations.
Computer storage of data offers improved performance of daily activities because a comprehensive system can provide reminders regarding the care needs of individual contacts (e.g., notification regarding contacts who need second skin tests and recommended dates).
A system also can perform interim analysis of aggregate results at prescheduled intervals.
This contributes both to reassessment of the investigative strategy (see When to Expand a Contact Investigation) and to program evaluation.
Confidentiality and Consent in Contact Investigations Multiple laws and regulations protect the privacy and confidentiality of patients' health care information (119).
Applicable federal laws include Sections 306 and 308(d) of the Public Health Service Act; the Freedom of Information Act of 1966; the Privacy Act of 1974, which restricts the use of Social Security numbers; the Privacy Protection Act of 1998; and the Privacy Rule of HIPAA, which protects individually identifiable health information and requires an authorization of disclosure (39).
Section 164.512 of HIPAA lists exemptions to the need to obtain authorization, which include communicable diseases reported by a public health authority as authorized by law (120).
Interrelationships between Federal and State codes are complex, and consultation with health department legal counsel is recommended when preparing policies governing contact investigations.
Maintaining confidentiality is challenging during contact investigations because of the social connections between an index patient and contacts.
Constant attention is required to maintain confidentiality.
Ongoing discussions with the index patient and contacts regarding confidentiality are helpful in finding solutions, and individual preferences often can be accommodated.
Legal and ethical issues in sharing confidential information sometimes can be resolved by obtaining consent from the patient to disclose information to specified persons and by documenting this consent with a signed form.
The index patient might not know the names of contacts, and contacts might not know the index patient by name.
With the patient's consent, a photograph of the patient or of contacts might be a legal option to assist in identifying contacts.
In certain places, separate consent forms are required for taking the photograph and for sharing it with other persons.
In congregate settings, access to occupancy rosters might be necessary to identify exposed contacts in need of evaluation.
In their approach to confidentiality and consent issues for contact investigations, TB control programs will need to address the following: Policies and training.
Policies explicitly regarding TB contact investigations are recommended for inclusion in the health department's overall policies for protecting confidentiality and breaking it when needed.
Consultation with legal counsel improves the utility and validity of the policies.
Periodic training in the policies is recommended for all staff who participate in contact investigations, including receptionists, interpreters, and clerical personnel.
Informed consent.
Consent for disclosure of information in the patient's primary language is recommended.
Refusal to grant consent can threaten public health and requires documentation and sometimes legal consultation for determining acceptable interventions.
Any deliberate breach of confidentiality by the health department should be authorized by law and documented.
Accidental breaches should be brought to the attention of the legal counsel for advice on remediation.
Obtaining informed consent presents the opportunity for learning patient preference for confidentiality.
Frequent discussions between health department workers and patients regarding confidentiality can allay mistrust.
Site investigations.
Especially in congregate settings (e.g., the workplace), maintaining confidentiality during a TB contact investigation is threatened by site visits.
Anticipatory discussions with the patient can lead to solutions for safeguarding confidentiality, and a patient's preferences should be honored when consistent with laws and good practices (121).
In addition, to the extent that onsite administrators already know confidential information regarding an index patient or contacts, they can be asked to respect confidentiality even if they are not legally bound to do so.
Employee and occupancy rosters are often shared with health department personnel to facilitate identification of contacts who should be evaluated.
Confidentiality of these records also must be safeguarded.
Other medical conditions besides TB.
Legal and ethical concerns for privacy and confidentiality extend beyond TB.
All personal information regarding an index patient and contacts is afforded the same protections.
Staffing and Training for Contact Investigations The multiple interrelated tasks in a contact investigation require personnel in the health department and other health-care-delivery systems to fulfill multiple functions and skills (Box 3).
Training and continuous on-the-job supervision in all these functions help ensure successful contact investigations.
Job titles of personnel who conduct contact investigations vary among jurisdictions (Box 4).
State licensing boards and other authorities govern the scope of practice of health department personnel, and this narrows the assignment of functions.
Reflection of these licensure-governed functions is recommended for personnel position descriptions, with specific references to contact investigations as duties.
Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances Contact investigations frequently involve multiple special circumstances, but these circumstances typically are not of substantive concern.
This section lists special challenges and suggests how the general guidance in other sections of this document can be adapted in response.
Outbreaks A TB outbreak indicates potential extensive transmission.
An outbreak implies that 1) a TB patient was contagious, 2) contacts were exposed for a substantial period, and 3) the interval since exposure has been sufficient for infection to progress to disease.
An outbreak investigation involves several overlapping contact investigations, with a surge in the need for public health resources.
More emphasis on active case finding is recommended, which can result in more contacts than usual having chest radiographs and specimen collection for mycobacteriologic assessment.
Definitions for TB outbreaks are relative to the local context.
Outbreak cases can be distinguished from other cases only when certain association in time, location, patient characteristics, or M.
tuberculosis attributes (e.g., drug resistance or genotype) become apparent.
In low-incidence jurisdictions, any temporal cluster is suspicious for an outbreak.
In places where cases are more common, clusters can be obscured by the baseline incidence until suspicion is triggered by a noticeable increase, a sentinel event (e.g., pediatric cases), or genotypically related M.
tuberculosis isolates.
On average in the United States, 1% of contacts (priority status not specified) have TB disease at the time that they are evaluated (50).
Nonetheless, this 1% average rate is not helpful in defining outbreaks, because substantial numbers of contacts are required for a statistically meaningful comparison to the 1% average.
A working definition of "outbreak" is recommended for planning investigations.
The linkage between cases should be confirmed by genotyping results if isolates have been obtained (122).
Any secondary case that is unexpectedly linked to a known index patient represents a potential failure of certain contact investigation, and therefore the strategy for the original investigation should be reassessed to determine whether the strategy for finding contacts was optimal and whether the priorities were valid or if additional contacts must be sought.
If a secondary case occurred because treatment for a known contact with LTBI was not started or completed, then the strategies for treatment and completion should be reviewed.
An outbreak increases the urgency of investigations and places greater demands on the health department.
Therefore, whenever possible, a suspected linkage between cases should be corroborated by genotyping results before intensifying an investigation.
Even if genotypes match, an epidemiologic investigation is required for determining probable transmission linkages (122--125).
In an outbreak, contacts can be exposed to more than one case, and cases and contacts can be interrelated through multiple social connections which complicate efforts to set priorities.
Social network analysis offers an alternative framework (see Other Topics) (126).
The risk factors contributing to a specific outbreak should be determined, because these findings will affect the investigation and inform the strategy.
Contagious TB undiagnosed or untreated for an extended period, or an extremely contagious case.
The challenges created by the extended infectious period include the patient's inability to remember persons and places and a greater number of contacts in a greater number of places.
Social network techniques (see other topics) and setting-based investigations are proxy methods for finding contacts.
A highly contagious case, sometimes with several pulmonary cavities or laryngeal disease, suggests a greater number of high-priority contacts.
If an outbreak has been discovered, and if the patient has one of these forms of TB, any contacts who have indeterminate exposure data should be classified as high priority.
Sometimes a delay in treating TB is caused by failure to suspect TB or to report it.
Opportunities for educating the providers should be pursued immediately, especially if contacts are likely to seek health care from the same providers.
Multidrug resistance can cause prolonged contagiousness if a standard treatment regimen for drug susceptible TB is being administered.
This problem can be prevented by obtaining initial susceptibility results, by monitoring the patient's condition and response to therapy, and by suspecting MDR TB when the patient has treatment failure, relapse, or slow recovery from illness (127).
Source patient visiting multiple sites.
A TB patient who has an active, complex social life and who frequents multiple sites where transmission of M.
tuberculosis could occur is also less likely to be able to name all contacts.
Proxy interviews (see Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission) and setting-based investigations are methods that supplement the patient's recall.
Patient and contacts in close or prolonged company.
When an outbreak has been discovered, high priority is recommended for contacts having close or prolonged exposure.
Environment promoting transmission.
A small interior space with poor ventilation can act as the focus of intense transmission of M.
tuberculosis.
High priority is recommended for all contacts who spent time with an outbreak source patient in such spaces, even if the periods of exposure were brief or unknown.
If the evidence from the investigation indicates a link between the site and transmission in an outbreak, the contacts in such a site should be designated as high priority, regardless of the site's characteristics.
Contacts very susceptible to disease after M.
tuberculosis infection.
Urgency is required when outbreak cases are diagnosed in contacts who are relatively more susceptible to progression from M.
tuberculosis infection to TB disease.
Other contacts with similar susceptibility should be sought.
Intensified methods for active case finding among contacts are recommended.
Gaps in contact investigations and follow-up.
Omissions, errors, and system failures can resurface later in the form of secondary TB cases (i.e., an outbreak).
Tracing back cases in an outbreak indicates whether prevention opportunities were missed in previous contact investigations or other prevention activities (e.g., targeted testing).
Extra-virulent strain of M.
tuberculosis.
The existence of such strains has not been demonstrated.
Determining which strains are more infective or pathogenic for humans is not yet possible, and the relevance of greater/faster pathogenicity of certain strains in laboratory animals is not fully understood yet (58,128,130).
Congregate Settings Overall concerns associated with congregate settings include 1) the substantial numbers of contacts, 2) incomplete information regarding contact names and locations, 3) incomplete data for determining priorities, 4) difficulty in maintaining confidentiality, 5) collaboration with officials and administrators who are unfamiliar with TB, 6) legal implications, and 7) media coverage.
Certain settings require intensified onsite approaches for ensuring that contacts are completely evaluated and for meeting objectives for treating LTBI.
Requests for supplemental resources are recommended when the scope or duration of an investigation is expected to disrupt other essential TB control functions.
Maintaining confidentiality for an index patient is difficult if the patient was conspicuously ill or was absent from the setting while ill (see Data Management and Evaluation of Contact Investigations).
Permission should be sought from the index patient before sharing information with any officials (e.g., supervisors, managers, or administrators) at the setting.
Collaboration with officials at the setting is essential for obtaining access to employee and occupancy rosters, ascertaining contacts, performing onsite diagnostic evaluations or treatment, and offering education to associates (e.g., classmates, friends, or coworkers) of the index patient.
For congregate settings, the types of information for designating priorities are site specific, and therefore a customized algorithm is required for each situation.
The general concepts of source-case characteristics, duration and proximity of exposure, environmental factors that modify transmission, and susceptibility of contacts to TB should be included in the algorithm (see Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation, Index Patient and Sites of Transmission, and Assigning Priorities to Contacts).
The optimum approach for a setting-based investigation is to interview and test contacts on site.
If this is not possible, then the contacts should be invited for evaluation at the health department, which should consider having additional personnel or extended hours.
As a last resort, contacts can be notified in writing to seek diagnostic evaluation with their own health-care providers.
In this case, the letter should inform health-care providers regarding the TB exposure (including drug susceptibility results), diagnostic methods (including a 5 mm skin test cut point), treatment recommendations for LTBI, and a reference telephone number at the health department for obtaining consultation.
Health-care providers also should receive a form for each contact that can be used to return diagnostic results and treatment decisions to the health department.
Certain congregate settings create opportunities for efficient onsite supervision of treatment for numerous contacts.
Treatment can be delivered by having health department personnel visit the setting twice weekly for intermittent therapy, or by collaborating with a health professional hired by the setting.
Arrangements are needed to maintain confidentiality with this approach.
Officials and administrators at the setting are likely to be concerned regarding liability, which can be addressed in advance with legal counsel.
For constructive media coverage, the health department should collaborate with the setting in focusing on clear, consistent information.
News reports that are factually accurate and that correctly describe the role of the health department can facilitate the investigation (see Communicating Through the News Media).
Correctional Facilities The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET) has issued guidance on preventing and controlling TB in correctional facilities (131).
Jails and prisons have been implicated in TB outbreaks (132--135).
Multiple factors can hinder contact investigations.
The best preparation for conducting contact investigations in jails and prisons is preexisting formal collaboration between correctional and public health officials.
If collaboration has not been established before a contact investigation is needed, creating it as part of the investigation is necessary.
Certain correctional populations have a high prevalence of HIV infection, and reviewing the HIV testing policies, procedures, and aggregate statistics is recommended.
If inmates have not been offered voluntary counseling, testing, and referral for HIV infection, and TB exposure is suspected, offering voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and referral is strongly recommended.
Inmates move about within correctional facilities on both daily and weekly schedules that can affect TB exposures.
In addition, inmates are transferred within and between jails or prisons.
Certain correctional settings have convenient, comprehensive longitudinal records for the locations of inmates that are essential for drawing up contact lists, estimating exposure periods, and assigning priorities to contacts.
A tour of exposure sites within each setting helps in estimating exposure intensity.
Prisons typically have onsite health services, but jails might not.
Certain prisons and jails test new inmate admissions and employees for M.
tuberculosis infection, and certain prisons have periodic surveillance testing of employees, inmates, or both.
Health-care providers in an onsite system can provide invaluable assistance in reviewing health records and evaluating and treating contacts.
If medical record data (e.g., previous exposure and skin test results) cannot be retrieved rapidly, health department officials should consider requesting additional resources.
Investigations in jails can be especially challenging because of rapid turnover of inmates and crowding.
The number of contacts who had close proximity to an index patient/inmate can be great, and yet exposure might be brief.
This complicates the process of assigning priorities.
High-priority contacts who are transferred, released, or paroled from a correctional facility before medical evaluation for TB should be traced.
Unless they have been released or paroled, prison inmates with LTBI can complete a treatment regimen while incarcerated.
In contrast, inmates in jails who are contacts are unlikely to be able to complete treatment while incarcerated.
A low completion rate is anticipated when inmates are released or paroled unless follow-through supervision can be arranged.
Workplaces A substantial number of persons spend the majority of their waking hours in their workplaces, which can be crowded.
Duration and proximity of exposure can be greater than for other settings.
Details regarding employment, hours, working conditions, and workplace contacts should be obtained during the initial interview with the index patient (see Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission), and the workplace should be toured after accounting for confidentiality and permission from workplace administrators or managers.
Employee lists are helpful for selecting contacts, but certain employees might have left the workplace and thus been omitted from current employee lists.
Occasional customers of a business workplace (e.g., intermittent visitors to a fast-food restaurant) should be designated as low-priority contacts.
Customers who visit a business workplace repeatedly should be assigned priorities as in other investigations (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts), especially susceptible or vulnerable contacts.
Workplace administrators or managers are likely to express concern regarding liability, lost productivity, and media coverage.
In addition, they might have limited obligations to protect patient confidentiality.
All these issues can be addressed during planning.
For example, the assistance of the health department's media relations specialist can be offered to the workplace.
For questions of liability and requirements under law, discussions between the health department's and the workplace's legal counsels are recommended.
Hospitals and Other Health-Care Settings Nearly every type of health-care setting has been implicated in transmission of M.
tuberculosis, and guidance on preventing transmission has been provided by CDC, the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee, and other organizations (42,136).
State governments have different degrees of regulatory authority over health-care settings.
Personnel collaborating with hospitals and other health-care entities should have knowledge of applicable legal requirements.
Infection control practitioners, although vital partners in these settings, might not be familiar with TB contact investigations.
Multiple settings have engineers who can describe and test the environmental systems.
Such an investigation should be planned jointly as a collaboration between the setting and the health department.
Initial discussions should include data sharing and divisions of responsibilities.
Liability, regulations, confidentiality, media coverage, and occupational safety are complex for health-care settings.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules, which are interpreted differently by different jurisdictions, might require hospital administrators to report when employees are reported to be infected from occupational exposure.
Public health officials should consider inviting legal counsel to the initial planning sessions with health-care administrators.
The majority of health-care settings have policies for testing employees for M.
tuberculosis infection at the time of employment and, in settings where exposure is anticipated, periodically thereafter.
Test results are helpful as baseline data.
The availability of baseline results for contacts who were patients or clients of the setting is variable; long-term care facilities might have these data.
Schools This category includes child care centers, preschools, primary through secondary schools, vocational schools that replace or immediately follow secondary school, and colleges or universities.
Contact investigations at juvenile detention centers and adult education systems should be managed along the same lines as investigations conducted in correctional settings and in workplaces, respectively.
Early collaboration with school officials and community members is recommended when considering an investigation related to a school, even if preliminary information suggests that an investigation is unnecessary.
The typical features of contact investigations in schools are the potentially substantial numbers of contacts and difficulties in assigning priorities to contacts who have undetermined durations and proximities of exposure.
The potential is great for controversies among public health officials, school officials, and the guardians of the children.
The presence of TB in schools often generates publicity.
Ideally, the health department should communicate with the school and parents (and guardians) before any media report a story.
TB control officials should anticipate media coverage and plan a collaborative strategy (see Communicating Through the News Media).
Consent, assent, and disclosure of information are more complex for nonemancipated minors than for adults.
Each interaction with a minor is also a potential interaction with the family.
The health department typically has limited alternatives for evaluating a minor if permission is not granted.
Anticipatory legal consultation is recommended.
Public health officials should visit the school to check indoor spaces, observe general conditions, and interview maintenance personnel regarding ventilation.
Class assignment records help in listing contacts, estimating durations of exposure, and setting priorities.
However, certain schools purge these files at the end of each school year, in which case interviews with students and personnel are necessary to list contacts.
Extramural activities add other exposure sites and contacts.
Clubs, sports, and certain classes require additional information gained from interviewing the patient, the patient's guardians, and school personnel.
For patients who ride school buses, a bus company might keep a roster of riders with addresses.
The strategy for contact investigations in child care centers, preschools, and primary schools depends on whether the index patient is a child (i.e., preadolescent) or an adult (e.g., a teacher or caregiver).
The potential infectiousness of an adult in the school should be determined (see Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation and Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission).
Certain home-based child care centers include adults who do not provide child care but who still share airspace with the children.
Source-case investigations should not be pursued in primary and higher-level schools unless other evidence points to the school as the focus.
In secondary and higher levels of education, students usually have adult-form TB, and infectiousness can be estimated by the standard criteria (see Decisions to Initiate a Contact Investigation and Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission).
With advancing education, academic schedules and extramural social schedules become more complex, and the information reported by the index patient is more important for a thorough investigation than it is for younger children.
Multiple jurisdictions have pre-employment requirements for TB clearance screening (e.g., a test for M.
tuberculosis infection) at schools or daycare settings, and certain jurisdictions require TB clearance for entering students.
Certain colleges and universities also have these requirements.
These baseline data are helpful for interpreting results from the investigation.
Schools that have onsite health services can administer DOT to students with LTBI, or the health department can send workers twice weekly to provide intermittent therapy.
This approach should be coordinated with the annual school cycle.
School breaks, vacations, graduations, and transfers disrupt the contact investigation.
In collaboration with school officials, the health department can notify, by mail, students and other contacts who will be unavailable at the school.
These contacts should be referred for evaluation at the health department.
Contacts seeking care from their own health-care providers should receive written instructions to give their providers.
Shelters and Other Settings Providing Services for Homeless Persons ACET and CDC have provided guidance for providing TB control services to homeless persons and for preventing TB transmission at settings providing services to them (137).
The challenges that can be anticipated for a contact investigation involving a homeless TB patient include difficulty locating the patient and contacts if they are mobile, episodic incarceration, migration from one jurisdiction to another, psychiatric illnesses (including chemical dependency disorders) that hinder communication or participation, and preexisting medical conditions (in particular, HIV infection).
When names or locations of specific contacts are unknown, interviews with the patient and potential contacts should focus on social networks and settings, including correctional facilities.
One surrogate for degree of exposure at an overnight shelter is the bed/cot assignment.
The proximity and duration of overlap should be estimated as closely as possible for selecting high-priority contacts.
Certain daytime-use settings keep sign-in lists, but these might lack information regarding overlap of visits.
Homeless persons frequently seek health care from multiple volunteer providers, halfway houses, chemical dependency treatment programs, community clinics, urgent care centers, and hospital emergency departments.
Consultation and assistance from health-care providers in these systems can be helpful.
This also creates an opportunity for collaboration, contact ascertainment, and mutual education.
Site visits and interviews are crucial, because the social communities of homeless persons are likely to vary by situation.
A contact investigation presents an opportunity to review the screening and testing services and to offer assistance with these and other means of decreasing transmission of M.
tuberculosis (e.g., environmental controls).
However, transmission also could occur at sites besides shelters (e.g., jails, taverns, abandoned buildings, and cars).
Settings providing services to homeless persons are affected by policies, laws, and regulations according to their service population, location, and funding sources, and certain of these issues are relevant for the contact investigation.
Access to visitation and occupancy rosters (or logs) and to other information regarding persons, vital for listing contacts and determining priorities, might be restricted by law (e.g., at settings that provide treatment for substance-abuse disorders), and the terms of access should be negotiated.
Low treatment-completion rates have been reported for treatment of LTBI diagnosed at homeless shelters (137--140).
TB control officials should work with setting administrators to offer onsite supervised intermittent treatment.
Sites with more stable populations are likely to benefit most from this approach.
Transportation Modes Transmission of M.
tuberculosis has been confirmed on military vessels at sea, commercial aircraft, passenger trains, and school buses (85,129,141--144).
However, transmission is unlikely unless ventilation is restricted or exposure is long or repetitive.
Drug or Alcohol Usage Sites Shared sites of drug or alcohol usage (e.g., taverns and crack houses), have been implicated as sites of M.
tuberculosis transmission (146,147).
Potential factors are close person-to-person proximity, repetitive exposure, and poor ventilation.
Routine interviews might not generate a complete contact list for these settings, and the patient's social network should be explored for other information sources.
Connections to correctional settings should be sought.
HIV infection is associated with multiple forms of substance abuse, and HIV counseling, testing, and referral services are recommended.
Special Sites Not Under Jurisdiction Examples of sites that are not under the jurisdiction of the local or state health department are those under the jurisdiction of the U.S.
government (e.g., military bases), diplomatic missions, or reservations for American Indian/Alaska Native tribes.
If these sites have their own health-care systems, the health department can offer technical consultation and can request data from contact investigations.
At sites that do not have health-care systems, agreements can be made between local TB control officials and the onsite authorities to delegate the public health response to the health department.
Index Patient Unable to Participate Approximately 8% of pulmonary TB patients with AFB detected on sputum microscopy have no contacts listed (17,50).
TB patients who have few or no contacts listed are more likely to be homeless or to have died (i.e., before an interview could be conducted).
This implies that the patients might have had contacts, but learning who the contacts were is difficult.
Social-network information, setting-based investigations, and proxy methods are recommended to supplement the contact list.
In addition, any person in whom a case of pulmonary TB was diagnosed at death indicates that a possible delay in diagnosis has occurred, which could infer increased and prolonged infectiousness and a need to increase the scope of the investigation.
MDR TB The occurrence of MDR TB does not change recommendations for assigning contact priorities.
Special consideration should be given to instances when resistance is acquired during treatment or when drug resistance was detected late during the treatment course, because these patients might have had prolonged periods of infectiousness.
Treatment regimens for infected contacts require expert consultation (see Treatment for Contacts with LTBI) (6).
Interjurisdictional Contact Investigations Contact investigations that overlap multiple jurisdictional areas require joint strategies for finding contacts, having them evaluated, treating the infected contacts, and gathering data.
A different solution usually is required for each situation.
Multiple jurisdictions within the United States.
The index patient and associated contacts might have stable residences, but travel among sites in different jurisdictions.
The health department that counts the index patient is responsible for leading the investigation and notifying the health departments in other jurisdictions regarding contacts residing in those jurisdictions.
Notifications should include requests for follow-through results of contact evaluation and treatment.
A team of representatives from the multiple health departments can increase the efficiency of such an investigation by planning the overall strategy together and monitoring the progress.
Migratory workers.
ACET has issued specific TB prevention and control recommendations for migratory agricultural workers (148).
An investigation for any migratory workers requires a strategy that is adjusted to their migration and work schedule.
The workers' itinerary should be ascertained during initial planning, and health departments in successive destinations should be notified.
A selection from among three general types of contact record management is recommended: 1) the transfer of patient records from one health department to the next on the itinerary; 2) the continual referral of information to a single coordinating health department throughout the investigation; or 3) patient ownership of records, with each patient responsible for keeping information while moving.
Because of the duration of treatment, treating LTBI is the most difficult phase.
Certain seasonal workers remain in one place as long as several months during off-season, and this period should be used to deliver as much treatment as possible.
Contagious TB patient traveling within the United States.
Officials from the health department that initially encountered the patient should interview the patient to gather as much identifying and locating information as possible for contacts who were visited during the patient's travels.
These data should be referred to the jurisdictions in which the contacts are located.
The jurisdiction that counts the index patient is assigned responsibility for managing the contact investigation overall.
International contact investigations.
The United States and Mexico participate in the Referral System for Binational TB Patients Pilot Project, which coordinates follow-up care when a TB patient moves between these two countries, mainly between participating jurisdictions.
Cure TB also contributes to continuity of care in other regions of the two countries.
Neither of these systems includes contact investigations at present.
TBNet is a health-care system for migratory agricultural workers who are receiving treatment for LTBI and thus includes contacts.
For cases or contacts in Canada, U.S.
health departments should notify TB control coordinators in provincial health departments.
Unusual Events Causing Exposure to M.
tuberculosis Complex The normal mode of transmission is person to person by the airborne route.
Unusual events (e.g., laboratory accidents) also can cause M.
tuberculosis transmission.
In contrast, M.
bovis transmission usually occurs via infected dairy products, which is preventable by pasteurization.
Animals with human-type or bovine TB.
Multiple mammalian and certain nonmammalian species are susceptible to human-type TB, presumably through exposure to persons with TB who are contagious.
Multiple animal hosts also can contract bovine TB (i.e., infection with M.
bovis), probably from exposure to other infected animals or from consuming infected dairy products or contaminated feed.
Standard methods for diagnosing M.
tuberculosis infection and disease have not been described for the majority of species.
Evaluation and management of an animal exposed to M.
tuberculosis should be referred to a veterinarian, who can consult with the state veterinarian.
Animal-to-human transmission of human TB in a household has not been confirmed, and the human contacts should be designated as low priority.
However, determining the source of M.
tuberculosis infection for an animal with TB is recommended.
The degree of risk for aerosol-inducing procedures (e.g., intubation, bronchoscopy, or necroscopy) performed on an animal having TB is unknown.
However, these procedures are likely to create infectious aerosols.
If infection control precautions for preventing M.
tuberculosis transmission were not implemented during the procedures, then in-room contacts are assigned high priority.
The evaluation and management of animals exposed to M.
bovis should be referred to a veterinarian.
Cases of M.
bovis in animals should be reported to the state veterinarian.
Animal-to-human transmission of M.
bovis from necropsy procedures has been confirmed (149).
Patients who acquire M.
bovis infection from ingestion are more likely to have extrapulmonary TB (e.g., scrofula or peritonitis), but pulmonary disease is possible.
Contact investigations regarding persons who have pulmonary TB caused by M.
bovis should be planned according to the guidelines provided in this report.
However, the potential for transmission is less clear.
bovis infection, but the tests are not approved specifically for this indication.
After active M.
bovis disease has been excluded by symptom review, examination, and tests as indicated by findings, suspected latent M.
bovis infection should be treated as ordinary M.
tuberculosis infection.
Multiple laboratory mammals, especially nonhuman primates, are highly susceptible to human-type TB.
Federal animal welfare regulations administered by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture ( apply to laboratory animals and certain animals used in exhibitions.
If such animals are exposed to infectious TB, consultation with the state veterinarian is recommended.
Microbiology laboratory accidents.
Routine laboratory procedures for manipulating either patient specimens or cultured isolates of M.
tuberculosis generate infectious aerosols.
Unintentional events (e.g., spills outside containment areas) and system failures can cause exposure.
A contact investigation for such scenarios should be based on the location of persons in the room at the time of the event and the airflow in the room.
Consultation with a microbiologist is recommended.
In general, baseline skin test results are available for workers in laboratories in which M.
tuberculosis is cultured or kept.
Surgical wounds, abscesses, embalming, and autopsies.
Diseased tissues are not typical sources of infection unless procedures create aerosols: water-jet irrigation, dripping fluids, electrical cauterization, and cutting with power tools.
If procedures were performed on infected tissues before infection control precautions were instituted, then persons in the room at the time should be designated as high-priority contacts.
Percutaneous inoculations.
tuberculosis can cause infection and local disease in skin or deeper tissue after direct inoculation by a contaminated object.
Percutaneous exposure would be highly unusual in anyone except a health-care worker, who should have a previous result from baseline testing for infection.
A 9-month INH treatment regimen should be started if the M.
tuberculosis is likely to be susceptible to it.
Treatment should be stopped if a repeat test for M.
If the baseline test result was positive, the full 9 months of treatment is recommended.
During treatment, the person should be examined monthly for signs of local infection or spread to regional lymph nodes.
Source-Case Investigations A source-case investigation seeks the source of recent M.
tuberculosis infection, perhaps newly diagnosed TB disease (43).
For this reason, it is a sentinel public health event.
Young children usually do not transmit TB to others, and their contacts are unlikely to be infected because of exposure to them (150).
A source-case investigation moves in the opposite direction of contact investigation, but the principles used in contact investigation apply.
Source-case investigations concerning adults with TB disease are not discussed in this report (42,131,151).
Source-case investigations typically have low yield for the effort required.
They are not recommended unless a TB control program is achieving its objectives (in particular, treatment of infected contacts) when investigating infectious cases.
A younger age cut-off might be advisable because the focus would be on more recent transmission.
An investigation may be started before the diagnosis of TB is confirmed because waiting for confirmation can decrease the chances of finding associates.
Source-Case Investigation for a Child with Latent M.
tuberculosis Infection A search for the source of infection for a child who has LTBI is unlikely to be productive (157--159).
Procedures for Source-Case Investigation Seeking a source case follows the same overall procedures as a standard contact investigation.
Parents or guardians usually are the best informants.
Such persons are termed associates.
Attention focuses on ill associates who have symptoms of TB disease.
A source-case investigation should begin with the closest associates (e.g., household members).
Limited data are needed for assessing the productivity of source-case investigations.
These data include the number of index patients investigated for their sources, the number of associates screened for TB disease, and the number of times that a source is found.
Other Topics Cultural Competence Culture refers to the integrated pattern of knowledge, beliefs, and behavior that is passed from one generation to another (160), including how persons act and interact.
If contact investigations are to be productive, cultural differences must be respected and understood.
Cultural competence is the knowledge and interpersonal skills that allow health-care providers to appreciate and work with persons from cultures other than their own.
It involves awareness of cultural differences, self-awareness, and sensitivity to a patient's culture and adaptation skills.
Language and culture are important factors in TB contact investigations.
The ability to understand cultural norms and to bridge the gaps that exist between cultures requires training and experience.
Influencing patients to participate in a contact investigation increasingly depends on the cultural competency of the health-care worker.
Training that is derived from the National Standards for Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services in Health Care is recommended (161).
Language interpreters need basic knowledge regarding TB, transmission, contact investigations, and the medical care of contacts.
Patient confidentiality is a critical element of training.
The use of family-member interpreters is discouraged.
The majority of family members do not have a medical orientation.
Patients might feel reluctant to reveal contacts of a family member.
Social Network Analysis Social network analysis might offer an effective way to list TB contacts and assign priorities to them (162--166).
Social network analyses have been tested retrospectively on TB outbreak investigations (126,167--170) and contact investigations (171,172).
However, the use of social network analysis to improve contact investigations has not been tested prospectively, the methods might require additional labor, and further operational research is needed.
Use of Blood Tests for the Detection of Latent M.
tuberculosis Infection The majority of experience with diagnosing M.
tuberculosis infection, especially LTBI, in contacts has been with the TST.
Newly released blood tests now have potential use for this purpose.
The initial QuantiFERON®-TB test (QFT) is a whole blood assay that measures IFN-g release in response to purified protein derivative (PPD).
Good agreement was reported with the skin test in healthy adults being tested for LTBI, and QFT was approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (173,174).
Data are insufficient to demonstrate the accuracy of QFT test for testing contacts, and it was not recommended for this situation (175).
Recently, QFT-G was approved by FDA for use as an in vitro diagnostic to aid in diagnosing M.
tuberculosis infection, including both LTBI and TB disease.
This test detects the release of IFN-g from lymphocytes of sensitized persons when their blood is incubated with peptide mixtures simulating two M.
tuberculosis proteins called ESAT-6 and CFP-10.
These proteins are secreted by all M.
tuberculosis and pathogenic M.
bovis strains, but are absent from all BCG vaccine strains and commonly encountered non-tuberculous mycobacteria.
Therefore, QFT-G offers the possibility of detecting M.
tuberculosis infection with greater specificity than has been possible previously with tests that used tuberculin PPD as the TB antigen (175,176).
CDC recommends that QFT-G can be used in all circumstances in which the TST is currently used, including contact investigations (177).
QFT-G can be used in place of and not in addition to the TST.
A positive QFT-G result should prompt the same evaluation and management as a positive TST.
No reason typically exists to follow a positive QFT-G with a TST.
For persons with recent contact to infectious TB, negative QFT-G results typically should be confirmed with a repeat test performed 8--10 weeks after the end of exposure.
Studies to identify the most appropriate times to re-test contacts with QFT-G have not been reported.
Until more specific data are available, the timing of QFT-G testing should be similar to that used for the TST.
Concern has been expressed that the QFT-G test might be somewhat less sensitive than the TST in detecting LTBI (177).
As with a negative TST, a negative QFT-G result alone should not be used to exclude M.
Another blood test for detection of infection, the ELISPOT test (marketed as T-SPOT-TB), is similar in principle to QFT ELISPOT results correlate with TB exposure risk better than skin test results for contacts of pulmonary TB patients), and like QFT-G, it appears able to differentiate between BCG vaccination and M.
tuberculosis infection (178,179).
ELISPOT has not yet been approved for use in the United States.
Felton Model TB Center (available at  --- Addressing HIV/AIDS Issues in TB Contact Investigations; Francis J.
Curry National Tuberculosis Center (available at  --- Contact Investigation in a Worksite Toolbox --- Quality Improvement for TB Case Management: An Online Course --- Making the Connection: An Introduction to Interpretation Skills for TB Control --- Facilitating TB Outreach: Community Workers and Hard-To-Reach TB Populations; Southeastern National Tuberculosis Center (available at  and Heartland National Tuberculosis Center (available at 
Acknowledgments The following persons provided vital assistance in the preparation of this report: John Jereb, MD, Philip Lobue, MD, Michael F.
Iademarco, MD, Division of TB Elimination; Terrence L.
Chorba, MD, Ronald O.
Valdiserri, MD, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
References Ferebee SH, Mount FW.
Tuberculosis morbidity in a controlled trial of the prophylactic use of isoniazid among household contacts.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1962;85:490--510.
Contact investigation: a practical approach to tuberculosis eradication.
Am J Pub Health 1963;53:1761--9.
Essential components of a tuberculosis prevention and control program.
MMWR 1995;44(No.
RR-11):1--17.
American Thoracic Society.
Guidelines for the investigation and management of tuberculosis contacts.
Am Rev Resp Dis 1976;114:1--5.
Contact tracing in tuberculosis.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc; 1993:275--89.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
RR-6):1--51.
Adverse event data and revised American Thoracic Society/CDC recommendations against the use of rifampin and pyrazinamide for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection---United States, 2003.
MMWR 2003;52:735--9.
Riley RL, Mills CC, O'Grady F, Sultan LU, Wittstadt F, Shivpuri DN.
Infectiousness of air from a tuberculosis ward.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1962;85:511--25.
Infectiousness of a university student with laryngeal and cavitary tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 1995;21:565--70.
Conde MB, Loivos AC, Rezende VM, et al.
Yield of sputum induction in the diagnosis of pleural tuberculosis.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2003;167:723--5.
Hutton MD, Stead WW, Cauthen GM, Bloch AB, Ewing WM.
Nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis associated with a draining abscess.
J Infect Dis 1990;161:286--95.
Templeton GL, Illing LA, Young L, Cave D, Stead WW, Bates JH.
The risk for transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis at the bedside and during autopsy.
Ann Intern Med 1995;122:922--5.
Sterling TR, Pope DS, Bishai WR, Harrington S, Gershon RR, Chaisson RE.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from a cadaver to an embalmer.
N Engl J Med 2000;342:246--8.
Lauzardo M, Lee P, Duncan H, Hale Y.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to a funeral director during routine embalming.
Chest 2001;119:640--2.
Catanzaro A.
Nosocomial tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1982; 125:559--62.
Bailey WC, Gerald LB, Kimerling ME, et al.
Predictive model to identify positive tuberculosis skin test results during contact investigations.
JAMA 2002;287:996--1002.
Marks SM, Taylor Z, Qualls NL, Shrestha-Kuwahara RJ, Wilce MA, Nguyen CH.
Outcomes of contact investigations of infectious tuberculosis patients.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;162:2033--8.
Loudon RG, Williamson J, Johnson JM.
An analysis of 3,485 tuberculosis contacts in the city of Edinburgh during 1954--1955.
Am Rev Tuberc 1958;77:623--43.
Liippo KK, Kulmala K, Tala EO.
Focusing tuberculosis contact tracing by smear grading of index cases.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1993;148:235--6.
Issues in the management of contacts of patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Can J Public Health 1997;88:197--201.
Madhi F, Fuhrman C, Monnet I, et al.
Transmission of tuberculosis from adults to children in a Paris suburb.
Pediatr Pulmonol 2002; 34:159--63.
Perlman DC, El-Sadr WM, Nelson ET, et al.
Variation of chest radiographic patterns in pulmonary tuberculosis by degree of human immunodeficiency virus--related immunosuppression.
Clin Infect Dis 1997;25:242--6.
Tuberculosis outbreak in a community hospital---District of Columbia, 2002.
MMWR 2004;53:214--6.
Loudon RG, Spohn SK.
Cough frequency and infectivity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1969;99:109--11.
Bates JH, Potts WE, Lewis M.
Epidemiology of primary tuberculosis in an industrial school.
N Engl J Med 1965;272:714--7.
Mangura BT, Napolitana EC, Passannante MR, McDonald RJ, Reichman LB.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis miniepidemic in a church gospel choir.
Chest 1998;113:234--7.
Loudon RG, Roberts RM.
Singing and the dissemination of tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1968;98:297--300.
Lawrence RM.
Tuberculosis in children.
In: Rom WN, Garay SM, eds.
Tuberculosis.
Boston, MA: Little, Brown, and Company; 1996.
Curtis AB, Ridzon R, Vogel R, et al.
Extensive transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from a child.
N Engl J Med 1999;341:1491--5.
Tuberculosis and the human immunodeficiency virus infection.
In: Rom WN, Garay SM, eds.
Tuberculosis.
Boston, MA: Little, Brown, and Company; 1996.
Carvalho AC, DeRiemer K, Nunes ZB, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to contacts of HIV-infected tuberculosis patients.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2001;164:2166--71.
Cruciani M, Malena M, Bosco O, Gatti G, Serpelloni G.
The impact of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 on infectiousness of tuberculosis: a meta-analysis.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1922--30.
Dietze R, Teixeira L, Rocha LMC, et al.
Safety and bactericidal activity of rifalazil in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;45:1972--6.
Gunnels JJ, Bates JH, Swindoll H.
Infectivity of sputum-positive tuberculous patients on chemotherapy.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1974; 109:323--30.
Riley RL, Moodie AS.
Infectivity of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in inner city homes.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1974;110:810--2.
Sultan L, Nyka W, Mills C, O'Grady F, Wells W, Riley RL.
Tuberculosis disseminators: a study of the variability of aerial infectivity of tuberculosis patients.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1960;82:359--69.
Update: nucleic acid amplification tests for tuberculosis.
MMWR 2000;49:593--4.
Wilce M, Shrestha-Kuwahara R, Taylor Z, Qualls N, Marks S.
Tuberculosis contact investigation policies, practices, and challenges in 11 U.S.
communities.
J Public Health Management Practices 2002;8:69--78.
HIPPA privacy rule and public health: guidance from CDC and the US Department of Health and Human Services.
MMWR 2003;52(S-1):1--12.
Reichler MR, Reves R, Bur S, et al.
Evaluation of investigations conducted to detect and prevent transmission of tuberculosis.
JAMA 2002;287:991--5.
California Department of Health Services, California Tuberculosis Controllers Association.
Contact investigation guidelines.
Berkeley, CA: California Department of Health Services; 1998.
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health-care facilities, 1994.
MMWR 1994;43 (No.
RR-13):1--132.
Self-study modules on tuberculosis: contact investigations for tuberculosis.
Atlanta, GA; US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 1999.
Bock NN, Mallory JP, Mobley N, DeVoe B, Taylor BB.
Outbreak of tuberculosis associated with a floating card game in the rural south: lessons for tuberculosis contact investigations.
Clin Infect Dis 1998;27:1221--6.
Golub JE, Cronin WA, Obasanjo OO, et al.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis through casual contact with an infectious case.
Arch Intern Med 2001;161:2254--8.
Interpretation of repeated tuberculin tests.
Boosting, conversion, and reversion.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159:15--21.
Rose CE, Zerbe GO, Lantz SO, Bailey WC.
Establishing priority during investigation of tuberculosis contacts.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1979;119:603--9.
Capewell S, Leitch AG.
The value of contact procedures for tuberculosis in Edinburgh.
Br J Dis Chest 1984;78:317--29.
Rouillon A, Perdrizet S, Parrot R.
Transmission of tubercle bacilli: the effects of chemotherapy.
Tubercle 1976;57:275--99.
Jereb J, Etkind SC, Joglar OT, Moore M, Taylor Z.
Tuberculosis contact investigations: outcomes in selected areas of the United States, 1999.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S384--90.
Stead WW, Senner JW, Reddick WT, Lofgren JP.
Racial differences in susceptibility to infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1990;322:422--7.
Comstock G.
Tuberculosis in twins: a re-analysis of the Prophit Survey.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1978;117:621--4.
Grzybowski S, Barnett, GD, Styblo K.
Contacts of cases of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Bull Int Union Tuberc 1975;50:90--106.
Krishna Murthy VV, Nair SS, Gothi GD, Chakraborty AK.
Incidence of tuberculosis among newly infected population and in relation to the duration of infected status.
Ind J Tub 1976;23:3--7.
Tuberculosis in infants and children.
In: Schlossberg D, ed.
Tuberculosis and nontuberculous mycobacterial infections.
Philadelphia, PA: W.B.
Saunders Company; 1999.
Comstock GW, Cauthen GM.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc.; 1993.
American Academy of Pediatrics/Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Tuberculosis.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2003 redbook: report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2003:642--60.
Pediatric tuberculosis.
In: A clinician's guide to tuberculosis.
Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins; 2000.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Controlling tuberculosis in the United States: recommendations from the American Thoracic Society, CDC, and the Infectious Disease Society of America.
MMWR 2005;54(No.
Cohn DL, El-Sadr WM.
Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc.; 2000.
Markowitz N, Hansen NI, Hopewell PC, et al.
Incidence of tuberculosis in the United States among HIV-infected persons.
Ann Intern Med 1997;126:123--32.
Daley CL, Small PM, Schecter GK, et al.
An outbreak of tuberculosis with accelerated progression among persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus: an analysis using restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:231--5.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among HIV-infected persons---Florida and New York, 1988--1991.
MMWR 1991;40:585--91.
Fischl MA, Uttamchandani RB, Daikos GL, et al.
An outbreak of tuberculosis caused by multiple-drug-resistant tubercle bacilli among patients with HIV infection.
Ann Intern Med 1992;117:177--83.
Gardam MA, Keystone EC, Menzies R, et al.
Anti-tumor necrosis factor agents and tuberculosis risk: mechanisms of action and clinical management.
Lancet 2003;3:148--55.
Palmer CE, Jablon S, Edwards PQ.
Tuberculosis morbidity of young men in relation to tuberculin sensitivity and body build.
Am Rev Tuberc 1957;76:517--39.
Silicosis in northern Rhodesia copper miners.
Arch Environ Health 1961;2:96--109.
Westerholm P, Ahlmark A, Maasing R, Segelberg I.
Silicosis and risk of lung cancer or lung tuberculosis: a cohort study.
Environ Res 1986;41:339--50.
Pablos Mendez A, Blustein J, Knirsch CA.
The role of diabetes mellitus in the higher prevalence of tuberculosis among Hispanics.
Am J Public Health 1997;87:574--9.
Boucot KR, Dillon ES, Cooper DA, Meier P, Richardson R.
Tuberculosis among diabetics: the Philadelphia Survey.
Am Rev Tuberc 1952;65:1--50.
Lundin AP, Adler AJ, Berlyne GM, Friedman EA.
Tuberculosis in patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis.
Am J Med 1979;67:597--602.
Chia S, Karim M, Elwood RK, FitzGerald JM.
Risk of tuberculosis in dialysis patients: a population-based study.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1998;2:989--91.
Thorn PA, Brookes VS, Waterhouse JA.
Peptic ulcer, partial gastrectomy, and pulmonary tuberculosis.
Br Med J 1956;1:603--8.
Tuberculosis and gastrectomy.
Chest 1985;87:414--5.
Pickleman JR, Evans LS, Kane JM, Freeark RJ.
Tuberculosis after jejunoileal bypass for obesity.
JAMA 1975;234:744.
Bruce RM, Wise L.
Tuberculosis after jejunoileal bypass for obesity.
An Intern Med 1977;87:574--6.
Riley EC, Murphy G, Riley RL.
Airborne spread of tuberculosis in a suburban elementary school.
Am J Epidemiol 1978;107:421--32.
Nardell EA, Keegan J, Cheney SA, Etkind SC.
Airborne infection: theoretical limits of protection achievable by building ventilation.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;144:302--6.
Gammaitoni L, Nucci MC.
Using a mathematical model to evaluate the efficacy of TB control measures.
Emerg Infect Dis 1997;3:335--42.
Management of health care workers after inadvertent exposure to tuberculosis: a guide for the use of preventive therapy.
Ann Intern Med 1995;123:906--12.
Risk of travel-associated tuberculosis.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1393--6.
Houk VH, Baker JH, Sorensen K, Kent DC.
The epidemiology of tuberculosis infection in a closed environment.
Arch Environ Health 1968;16:26--35.
Houk VH, Kent DC, Baker JH, Sorensen K, Hanzel GD.
The Byrd study: in-depth analysis of a micro-outbreak of tuberculosis in a closed environment.
Arch Environ Health 1968;16:4--6.
Gerald LB, Tang S, Bruce F, et al.
A decision tree for tuberculosis contact investigation.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002;166:1122--7.
Kenyon TA, Valway SE, Ihle WW, Onorato IM, Castro KG.
Transmission of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis during a long airplane flight.
N Engl J Med 1996;334:933--8.
Driver CR, Valway SE, Morgan WM, Onorato IM, Castro KG.
Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis associated with air travel.
JAMA 1994;272:1031--5.
World Health Organization.
Tuberculosis and air travel: guidelines for prevention and control.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1998.
Exposure of passengers and flight crew to Mycobacterium tuberculosis on commercial aircraft, 1992--1995.
MMWR 1995;44:137--40.
Essential components of a tuberculosis prevention and control program.
MMWR 1995;44(No.
RR-11):1--16.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis: a general review.
Adv Tuberc Res 1970;17:28--106.
Sutherland I.
The ten-year incidence of clinical tuberculosis following "conversion" in 2550 individuals aged 14 to 19 years.
Tuberculosis Surveillance Research Unit progress report.
The Hague, Netherlands: Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association (KNCV); 1968.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2002.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2003.
Variation in protection by BCG: implications of and for heterologous immunity.
Lancet 1995;346:1339--45.
The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States: a joint statement by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-4):1--18.
Huebner RE, Schein MF, Bass JB.
The tuberculin skin test.
Clin Infect Dis 1993;17:968--75.
Reported tuberculosis in the United States, 2003.
Atlanta, GA: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Guidelines for national human immunodeficiency virus case surveillance, including monitoring for human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-13):1--28.
Missed opportunities for prevention of tuberculosis among persons with HIV infection---United States, 1996--1997.
MMWR 2000;49:685--7.
Reichler MR, Bur S, Reves R, et al.
Results of testing for human immunodeficiency virus infection among recent contacts of infectious tuberculosis cases in the United States.
Int J Tuber Lung Dis 2003;7:S471--8.
Revised guidelines for HIV counseling, testing, and referral.
MMWR 2001;50(No.
RR-19):1--58.
Prevention and treatment of tuberculosis among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: principles of therapy and revised recommendations.
MMWR 1998;47(No.
RR-20):1--51.
Edwards LB, Palmer CE, Magnus K.
BCG vaccination: studies by the WHO Tuberculosis Research Office, Copenahgen.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1953.
The Hague, Netherlands: Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association (KNCV); 1957.
Wasz-Hockert O.
On the period of incubation in tuberculosis.
Ann Med Fenn 1947;96:764--72.
Wallgren A.
The time-table of tuberculosis.
Tuberc 1948;29:245--51.
Some clinical features of tuberculosis: I.
Incubation period.
Acta Tuberc Scand 1950;24:311--46.
Dunlap NE, Bass J, Fujiwara P, et al.
Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis in adults and children.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:1376--95.
Cauthen GM, Snider DE, Onorato IM.
Boosting of tuberculin sensitivity among Southeast Asian refugees.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994;149:1597--600.
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2010.
Washington, DC, US Department of Health and Human Services; 2000.
Reichler MR, Reves R, Bur S, et al.
Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in contacts of new tuberculosis cases in the United States.
South Med J 2002;95:414--20.
Lincoln EM, Sewell EM.
Tuberculosis in children.
New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.; 1963.
Management of persons exposed to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
RR-11):59--71.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Control of tuberculosis in the United States.
Am Rev Resp Dis 1992;146:1623--33.
Institute of Medicine.
Ending neglect: the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 2000.
Etkind SC, Veen J.
Contact follow-up in high- and low-prevalence countries.
In: Reichman LB, Hershfield ES, eds.
Tuberculosis: a comprehensive international approach.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc.; 2000.
Aggregate reports for tuberculosis program evaluation: training manual and user's guide.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2005.
Available at 
Collecting, organizing, and displaying epidemiologic data.
In: Quick reference to outbreak investigation and control in health care facilities.
Gaithersburg, MD: Aspen Publishers; 2000.
Framework for program evaluation in public health.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
RR-11):1--40.
National Center for Health Statistics.
NCHS staff manual on confidentiality.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Center for Health Statistics; 1984.
Public law 104-191.
Section 164.512.
Available at 
Self-study modules on tuberculosis: confidentiality in tuberculosis control.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC; 1999.
National TB Controllers Association/CDC Advisory Group on Tuberculosis Genotyping.
Guide to the application of genotyping to tuberculosis prevention and control.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2004.
Crawford JT.
Genotyping in contact investigations: a CDC perspective.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S453--7.
Daley CL, Kawamura LM.
The role of molecular epidemiology in contact investigations: a US perspective.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003; 7:S458--62.
Lambregts-van Weezenbeek CS, Sebek MM, van Gerven PJ, et al.
Tuberculosis contact investigation and DNA fingerprint surveillance in The Netherlands: 6 years' experience with nation-wide cluster feedback and cluster monitoring.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S463--70.
McElroy PD, Rothenberg RB, Varghese R, et al.
A network-informed approach to investigating a tuberculosis outbreak: implications for enhancing contact investigations.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S486--493.
American Thoracic Society, CDC, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Treatment of tuberculosis.
MMWR 2003;52(No.
RR-11):1--77.
Valway SE, Sanchez MPC, Shinnick TF, et al.
An outbreak involving extensive transmission of a virulent strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
N Engl J Med 1998;338:633--9.
Yusuf HR, Braden CR, Greenberg AJ, Weltman AC, Onorato IM, Valway SE.
Tuberculosis transmission among five school bus drivers and students in two New York counties.
Pediatrics 1997;100:E9.
Prabhakar R, Venkataraman P, Vallishayee RS, et al.
Virulence for guinea pigs of tubercle bacilli isolated from the sputum of participants in the BCG trial, Chingleput District, South India.
Tubercle 1987;68:3--17.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in correctional facilities: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
RR-8):1--27.
Valway SE, Richards SB, Kovacovich J, Greifinger RB, Crawford JT, Dooley SW.
Outbreak of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis in a New York State prison, 1991.
Am J Epidemiol 1994;140:113--22.
Probable transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in a correctional facility---California.
MMWR 1993;42:48--51.
Jones TF, Craig AS, Valway SE, Woodley CL, Schaffner W.
Transmission of tuberculosis in a jail.
Ann Intern Med 1999;131:557--63.
Spradling P, Drociuk D, McLaughlin S, et al.
Drug-drug interactions in inmates treated for human immunodeficiency virus and Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection or disease: an institutional tuberculosis outbreak.
Clin Infect Dis 2002;35:1106--12.
Guidelines for environmental infection control in health-care facilities: recommendations of CDC and the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC).
MMWR 2003;52(No.
RR-10):1--42.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis among homeless persons: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
RR-5):13--21.
Tuberculosis among residents of shelters for the homeless---Ohio, 1990.
MMWR 1991;40:869--71, 877.
McElroy PD, Southwick KL, Fortenberry ER, et al.
Outbreak of tuberculosis among homeless persons coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus.
Clin Infect Dis 2003;36:1305--12.
Yun LW, Reves RR, Reichler MR, et al.
Outcomes of contact investigation among homeless persons with infectious tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S405--11.
Spread of tuberculosis via recirculated air in a naval vessel: the Byrd study.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1980;353:10--24.
DiStasio AJ, Trump DH.
The investigation of a tuberculosis outbreak in the closed environment of a U.S.
navy ship, 1987.
Mil Med 1990;155:347--51.
Moore M, Valway SE, Ihle W, Onorato IM.
A train passenger with pulmonary tuberculosis: evidence of limited transmission during travel.
Clin Infect Dis 1999;28:52--6.
Rogers EFH.
Epidemiology of an outbreak of tuberculosis among school children.
Public Health Rep 1962;77:401--9.
Miller MA, Valway S, Onorato IM.
Tuberculosis risk after exposure on airplanes.
Tubercle Lung Dis 1996;77:414--9.
Kline SE, Hedemark LL, Davies SF.
Outbreak of tuberculosis among regular patrons of a neighborhood bar.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:222--7.
Crack cocaine use among persons with tuberculosis---Contra Costa County, California, 1987--1990.
MMWR 1991;40:485--9.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in migrant farm workers: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
RR-10):1--11.
Fanning A, Edwards S.
Mycobacterium bovis infection in human beings in contact with elk (Cervus elaphus) in Alberta, Canada.
Lancet 1991;338:1253--5.
American Academy of Pediatrics/Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Tuberculosis.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2000 red book: report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2000:595, 611.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in facilities providing long-term care to the elderly: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1990;39 (No.
RR-10):7--20.
Lobato MN, Mohle-Boehtani JC, Royce SE.
Missed opportunities for preventing tuberculosis among children younger than five years of age.
Pediatrics 2000;6:E75.
Driver CR, Luallen JJ, Good WE, Valway SE, Frieden TR, Onorato IM.
Tuberculosis in children younger than five years old: New York City.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:112--7.
Kimerling ME, Vaughn ES, Dunlap NE.
Childhood tuberculosis in Alabama: epidemiology of disease and indicators of program effectiveness, 1983 to 1993.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:678--84.
Watchi R, Kahlstrom E, Vachon LA, Barnes PF.
Pediatric tuberculosis: clinical presentation and contact investigation at an urban medical center.
Respiration 1998;65:192--4.
Lobato MN, Royce SE, Mohle-Boetani JC.
Yield of source-case and contact investigations in identifying previously undiagnosed childhood tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2003;7:S391--6.
Soren K, Saiman L, Irigoyen M, Gomez-Duarte C, Levison MJ, McMahon DJ.
Evaluation of household contacts of children with positive tuberculin skin tests.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1999;18:949--55.
Ford J, Boutotte J, Etkind S, Nardell E.
Am J Respir and Crit Care Med 2000;161:A298.
Besser RE, Pakiz B, Schulte JM, et al.
Risk factors for positive mantoux tuberculin skin tests in children in San Diego, California: evidence for boosting and possible foodborne transmission.
Pediatrics 2001;108:305--10.
Kleinman A.
Patients and healers in the context of culture: an exploration of the borderland between anthropology, medicine, and psychiatry.
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press; 1980.
US Department of Health and Human Services.
National standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health care: final report.
Rockville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Minority Health; 2001.
Available at 
MacQueen K.
National Tuberculosis Controllers Workshop.
Atlanta, GA; August 30--September 1, 2000.
Social networks and health status: linking theory, research, and practices.
Patient Couns Health Educ 1982;4:65--79.
Morris M, Kretzschmar M.
Concurrent partnerships and transmission dynamics in networks.
Social Networks 1995;17:299--318.
Bell DC, Montoya ID, Atkinson JS, Yang SJ.
Social networks and forecasting the spread of HIV infection.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2002;31:218--29.
Rothenberg RB, Long DM, Sterk CE, et al.
The Atlanta Urban Networks Study: a blueprint for endemic transmission.
AIDS 2000;14:2191--200.
HIV-related tuberculosis in a transgender network---Baltimore, Maryland and New York City Area, 1998--2000.
MMWR 2000;49:317--20.
Fitzpatrick LK, Hardacker WH, Agerton T, et al.
A preventable outbreak of tuberculosis investigated through an intricate social network.
Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1801--6.
Klovdahl AS, Graviss EA, Yaganehdoost A, et al.
Networks and tuberculosis: an undetected community outbreak involving public places.
Soc Sci Med 2001;52:681--94.
Cluster of tuberculosis cases among exotic dancers and their close contacts---Kansas, 1994--2000.
MMWR 2001;50:291--3.
Presented at the National Tuberculosis Controllers Workshop, Atlanta, GA; August 30--September 1, 2000.
Presented at the National Tuberculosis Controllers Workshop, Atlanta GA.; August 30--September 1, 2000.
Mazurek GH, LoBue PA, Daley CL, et al.
Comparison of a whole-blood interferon gamma assay with tuberculin skin testing for detecting latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
JAMA 2001; 286:1740--7.
Guidelines for using the QuantiFERON®-TB test for diagnosing latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2003;52 (No.
RR-2):15--8.
Mori T, Sakatani M, Yamagishi F, et al.
Specific detection of tuberculosis infection with an interferon-gamma based assay using new antigens.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2004;170:59--64.
Brock I, Weldingh K, Lillebaek T, Follmann F, Andersen P.
Comparison of tuberculin skin test and new specific blood test in tuberculosis contacts.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2004;170:65--9.
Guidelines for using the QuantiFERON®-TB gold test for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, United States.
MMWR 2005;54 (No.
RR-15):49--56.
Lalvani A, Pathan AA, Durkan H, et al.
Enhanced contact tracing and spatial tracking of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection by enumeration of antigen-specific T cells.
2001;357:2017--21.
Ewer K, Deeks J, Alvarez L, et al.
Comparison of T-cell-based assay with tuberculin skin test for diagnosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in a school tuberculosis outbreak.
Lancet 2003;361:1168--73.
* The age-cohort effect was strong in this study, but this factor is beyond the scope of these guidelines.
National Tuberculosis Controllers Association/CDC Workgroup on Contact Investigations Membership List, December, 2005 Co-Chairs: Jon Tilinghast, MD, Oklahoma State Department of Health, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Zachary Taylor, MD, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Members: Suzanne Banda, MPH, Evelyn Lancaster, Oregon Department of Human Resources, Portland, Oregon; Rajita Bhavaraju, MPH, Mark Wolman, MPH, Global Tuberculosis Institute, New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey; Sue Etkind, MS, Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Kimberly W.
Field, MSN, Lorena Jeske, MN, Washington State Department of Health, Olympia, Washington; Teresa Garrett, MS, Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, Utah; James M.
Holcombe, MPPA, Mississippi State Department of Health, Jackson, Mississippi; Jennifer Flood, MD, Lisa Pascopella, PhD, Joan Sprinson, MPH, California Department of Health Services, Richmond, California; Dennis Minnice, MA, Chicago Department of Health, Chicago, Illinois; Jeff Taylor, MPH, Charles Wallace, PhD, Texas Department of State Health Services, Austin, Texas; Frank Wilson, MD, Arkansas Department of Health, Little Rock, Arkansas; John Jereb, MD, Nickolas DeLuca, PhD, Mary Reichler, MD, Phil LoBue, MD, Suzanne Marks, MPH, Scott McCoy, Maureen Wilce, MS, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Table 1 Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Box 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Box 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Figure 3 Return to top.
Box 3 Return to top.
Table 4 Return to top.
Figure 4 Return to top.
Box 4 Return to top.
Table 5 Return to top.
Figure 5 Return to top.
Figure 6 Return to top.
Figure 7 Return to top.
Figure 8 Return to top.
Figure 9 Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tuberculosis (TB) SEARCH About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Vaccine Testing for Tuberculosis Exposure Risk Factors Prevention VIEW ALL ESPAÑOL About Tuberculosis is a disease caused by germs that are spread from person to person through the air.
Learn More Signs and Symptoms Common symptoms of active tuberculosis disease include cough, chest pain, and coughing up blood.
Testing for Tuberculosis The tuberculosis (TB) blood test and the TB skin test are the two types of tests for TB infection.
Treatment Both inactive tuberculosis (TB) and active TB disease can be treated.
For Professionals TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings U.S.
health care settings should have a TB infection control plan.
Health Care Providers TB for Health Care Providers TB Programs Tuberculosis Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation Guidelines Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit Latent TB Infection Resource Hub Public Health Professionals Information for Tuberculosis Programs Tuberculosis Data TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Genotyping Laboratory Information Tuberculosis Research Featured Resources General Public Communication and Education Resources CDC has a range of tuberculosis (TB) communication resources for the public.
Tuberculosis Personal Stories Highlights the experiences of people diagnosed and treated for inactive TB and active TB disease.
Treat TB Think.
Treat TB aims to increase awareness and understanding about inactive tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis (TB) Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
Weekly December 20, 1991 / 40(50);869-871,877 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Tuberculosis Among Residents of Shelters for the Homeless -- Ohio, 1990 During 1990, 17 cases of clinically active pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) occurred among residents of homeless shelters in three Ohio cities (Cincinnati, Columbus, and Toledo).
This report summarizes the results of investigations of these cases by the Ohio Department of Health.
Cincinnati During March 1990, health officials in Cincinnati were notified of three TB cases among residents of a 200-bed shelter for homeless adults.
One of these (index case) occurred in a man with a history of alcohol abuse who died from respiratory failure and at autopsy was found to have cavitary pulmonary TB.
From April through November 1990, eight additional cases of pulmonary TB were identified among residents of the shelter (Figure 1).
Of the 11 total case-patients, seven were sputum-smear-positive, indicating potential infectiousness, and 10 were culture-positive.
Four case-patients were known acquaintances of the index patient (Figure 1).
Mycobacterial isolates from the 10 culture-positive patients and isolates obtained from 10 persons not associated with the outbreak (controls) were sent to CDC for typing by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) (1).
The control isolates were obtained from a convenience sample of 10 persons with apparently unrelated TB cases reported during 1990 from Cincinnati and nearby counties in Ohio and Kentucky.
Nine of the 10 outbreak-related isolates, including the isolate from the index patient, and two control isolates had identical RFLP banding patterns.
The two control isolates that shared an RFLP banding pattern with outbreak isolates were obtained from patients who, like the index patient, resided in Cincinnati and had a history of alcohol abuse.
Columbus During March 1990, staff from a local hospital emergency room notified the public health department in Columbus of a case of sputum-smear-positive pulmonary TB in a resident (index patient) of a homeless shelter; TB had been diagnosed during January, but the patient had been lost to follow-up for 2 months.
During those 2 months, he had resided in a shelter in Toledo, 135 miles north of Columbus.
The public health department notified the Columbus shelter director and initiated a voluntary, citywide TB screening and case-finding program for residents and staff of men's shelters and soup kitchens; 95% of these facilities participated.
On average, 768 persons daily occupied the participating men's shelters and soup kitchens in Columbus.
During April 24-May 24, 1990, the city health department administered Mantoux tuberculin skin tests (5 tuberculin units (TU) of purified protein derivative (PPD)) to 363 residents and 123 (69%) of 178 staff.
Of the 486 skin tests administered, 403 (83%) were read (291 residents and 112 staff).
Among 81 skin-tested residents of the shelter in which the index patient resided, 32 (40%) had tuberculin skin test reactions greater than or equal to 10 mm induration, compared with 47 (22%) of 210 skin-tested residents of other Columbus men's shelters and soup kitchens (relative risk=1.8, 95% confidence interval=1.2-2.5).
Among the 27 staff members at the shelter in which the index patient resided, seven (26%) had tuberculin skin test reactions greater than or equal to 10 mm induration, compared with nine (11%) of 85 staff members in other men's shelters and soup kitchens (p=0.06, Fisher's exact test, 2-tailed).
Following the screening program in Columbus, vouchers for chest radiographs were issued to 95 persons with tuberculin reactions greater than or equal to 10 mm induration (previous tuberculin status not reported) and 30 persons with previously known tuberculin reactions.
Of these 125 persons, 111 (89%) had radiographs and 40 (32%) reported to the TB clinic for evaluation and treatment after the radiograph.
Isoniazid (INH) prophylaxis was recommended for 37 of the 40 persons; 28 (76%) of the 37 did not return after their initial clinic visit, eight (22%) completed prophylaxis, and one (3%) stopped treatment because of adverse reactions.
One resident who had a tuberculin reaction greater than or equal to 10 mm induration and who refused a chest radiograph had culture-negative pleural TB diagnosed in June 1990.
From May through December 1990, five additional cases of clinically active pulmonary TB were identified among residents of men's shelters and soup kitchens in Columbus.
Results of investigations of these cases are pending.
Toledo In Toledo, voluntary screening for TB was initiated at the shelter that had been visited by the index patient from Columbus and was offered to persons who resided in the shelter within 10 weeks of the potential exposure.
Of the 80 residents in the shelter, 20 (25%) were considered to be long-term (greater than or equal to 3 months) residents; 18 of these were evaluated.
Two of the 18 had histories of tuberculous infection.
Mantoux tuberculin skin tests (5 TU PPD) were administered to the remaining 16; of the 15 skin tests that were read, four (27%) patients had reactions greater than or equal to 10 mm induration.
Reported by: P VonVille, F Holtzhauer, PhD, T Long, MD, Columbus Health Dept; A Phurrough, D Murphy, Hamilton County Tuberculosis Control Program; BK Mortensen, PhD, G Horst, MD, TJ Halpin, MD, State Epidemiologist, Ohio Dept of Health.
Div of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases; Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for Prevention Svcs; Div of Field Epidemiology, Epidemiology Program Office; CDC.
Editorial Note Editorial Note: In this report, the large number of TB cases among residents of one 200-bed shelter in Cincinnati and the results of RFLP typing suggest that transmission of TB occurred in the shelter.
RFLP is a recently developed laboratory tool for identifying genetic differences among Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains (1).
This technique provides highly specific and reproducible identification of isolates and, with further refinements, should aid health departments in conducting epidemiologic investigations.
The two control isolates that shared a banding pattern with the outbreak strains may reflect the finite number of regional strains or represent an epidemiologic link to patients affected in the outbreak.
Other possible, but less likely, causes for the matching patterns include misidentification or contamination during collection or processing of specimens or isolates.
At least four factors contribute to an increased risk for TB among homeless persons.
First, in different locations, the prevalence of clinically active TB has ranged from 2% to 7%, and the prevalence of latent infection has ranged from 12% to 50% (2-5).
Second, characteristics of shelter environments (e.g., crowding and insufficient ventilation) facilitate transmission of TB (6).
Third, the increased prevalence of some conditions (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, poor nutrition, alcoholism, illicit drug use, and psychological stress) among homeless persons may increase their risk for active TB if infected (4,5,7-10).
Fourth, because shelter residents are transient, they often do not complete TB therapy, and the likelihood of relapse, drug resistance, and further transmission of TB among shelter residents is increased (3,4,8,10).
In Columbus, the prevalence of TB infection was higher among residents and staff of the shelter where the index patient resided.
Despite efforts to screen and treat shelter residents in Columbus, only 22% of persons for whom INH preventive therapy was prescribed were known to have completed the recommended course.
Some shelters have reported improved adherence to TB therapy among shelter residents through convenient, on-site medical examinations and treatment; directly observed therapy; and behavioral incentives (e.g., transportation and more comfortable sleeping areas for residents receiving TB treatment) (5-7).
Because of the difficulties in controlling the airborne spread of TB among shelter residents, as well as the increased risk for TB among homeless persons, especially that associated with HIV infection, the following measures are needed to decrease this risk: early identification and effective treatment of active TB cases among shelter residents; 2) hospitalization in an acute-care or long-term-care facility or appropriate housing for such patients with active TB until they are no longer infectious or, ideally, until completion of therapy; 3) directly supervised therapy until completion of treatment for active TB; 4) directly supervised preventive therapy for shelter residents at high risk for TB; 5) awareness of HIV-infection status for appropriate selection and monitoring of TB treatment and preventive therapy (11); 6) appropriate ventilation and other environmental control measures in shelters; 7) routine surveillance of shelter staff for tuberculous infection; and 8) close cooperation between programs and staff operating homeless shelters and the health department for ongoing control of TB among homeless populations.
References Cave MD, Eisenach KD, McDermott PF, et al.
Conservation of sequence in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and its utilization in DNA fingerprinting.
Mol Cell Probes 1991;5:73-80.
Sherman MN, Brickner PW, Schwartz MS, et al.
Tuberculosis in single-room occupancy hotel residents: a persistent focus of disease.
New York Medical Quarterly 1980;2:39-41.
Barry MA, Wall C, Shirley L, et al.
Tuberculosis screening in Boston's homeless shelters.
Public Health Rep 1986;101:487-94.
Management of tuberculosis in urban homeless indigents.
Public Health Rep 1986;101:481-5.
McAdam JM, Brickner PW, Scharer LL, et al.
The spectrum of tuberculosis in a New York City men's shelter clinic (1982-1988).
Chest 1990;97:798-805.
Nolan CM, Elarth AM, Barr HA, et al.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a shelter for homeless men: a description of its evolution and control.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;143:257-61.
Torres RA, Mani S, Altholz J, Brickner PW.
Human immunodeficiency virus infection among homeless men in a New York City shelter: association with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
Arch Intern Med 1990;150:2030-6.
Brudney K, Dobkin J.
Resurgent tuberculosis in New York City: human immunodeficiency virus, homelessness, and the decline of tuberculosis control programs.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;144:745-9.
Reichman LB, Felton CP, Edsall JR.
Drug dependence, a possible new risk factor for tuberculosis disease.
Arch Intern Med 1979;139:337-9.
Pablos-Mendez A, Raviglione MC, Battan R, Ramos-Zuniga R.
Drug resistant tuberculosis among the homeless in New York City.
N Y State J Med 1990;90:351-5.
Tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1989;38:236-8, 243-50.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly August 30, 1991 / 40(34);585-591 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Epidemiologic Notes and Reports Nosocomial Transmission of Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis Among HIV-Infected Persons -- Florida and New York, 1988 - 1991 During 1990 and 1991, outbreaks of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in four hospitals (one in Miami (1) and three in New York City) were investigated by CDC in collaboration with the reporting hospitals and state and local health departments.
This report summarizes preliminary findings of the investigations and recommendations for prevention and control of MDR-TB outbreaks.
Hospital A From January 1988 through January 1990, 29 patients diagnosed with MDR-TB (case-patients) had Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates resistant to at least isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF) (1).
For nine of these patients, isolates were also resistant to ethambutol (EMB).
Of the 29 patients, 27 (93%) were known to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); 23 had acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-defining conditions (2).
Of the 29 total patients, 21 (72%) died a median of 7 weeks after diagnosis of MDR-TB.
The 29 case-patients were compared with 29 randomly selected HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis (TB) who had M.
tuberculosis isolates susceptible to INH, RIF, and other drugs tested (controls).
Before onset of TB, case-patients were more likely to have been patients in the hospital's HIV ward or outpatient HIV clinic at the same time as another case-patient with infectious pulmonary MDR-TB (14/29 vs.
1/29; odds ratio (OR)=26.1; 95% confidence interval (CI)=3.2-1143.0) (1).
From February 1990 through February 1991, 36 additional patients were diagnosed with M.
tuberculosis resistant to at least INH and RIF; 30 of these cases were diagnosed during the first 6 months of that period and before, or within 2 months after, hospital A had implemented a substantial number of control measures (see box) with the assistance of the state and local health departments and CDC.
Of the 36 additional patients, 35 were known to have HIV infection.
Hospital B From January 1989 through April 1990, 18 patients with AIDS diagnosed with MDR-TB had isolates resistant to at least INH and streptomycin (SM) (case-patients) (4).
For 12 of these patients, isolates were also resistant to RIF and EMB.
Sixteen (89%) of the patients died a median of 16 weeks after diagnosis of TB.
For at least six patients, the cause of death appeared to be TB.
The 18 case-patients were compared with the 30 patients with AIDS who were diagnosed with TB during the same period and had M.
tuberculosis isolates susceptible to one or both drugs (controls).
In the 6 months before TB diagnosis, case-patients were more likely to have been hospitalized on the same ward at the same time as another case-patient with infectious pulmonary MDR-TB (13/18 vs.
2/30; OR=36.4; 95% CI=5.2-381.0).
The estimated incubation period for TB in case-patients ranged from 30 to 105 days.
For 13 of 14 outbreak isolates analyzed, typing by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), an experimental method of DNA analysis for identifying genetic differences between M.
tuberculosis strains (5), yielded identical DNA fingerprints.
From May 1990 through January 1991, 17 additional patients (all infected with HIV) were diagnosed with M.
tuberculosis resistant to at least INH and SM.
Hospital C From September 1989 through March 1991, 17 patients diagnosed with MDR-TB had isolates resistant to at least INH, RIF, and SM (case-patients); for 10 case-patients, isolates were also resistant to EMB.
Of the 16 patients who were known to be HIV-seropositive, 11 had AIDS-defining conditions.
Of the 17 total patients, 14 (82%) died a median of 6 weeks after diagnosis of TB.
For 10 case-patients, the cause of death appeared to be TB.
Case-patients were compared with the 69 patients with TB diagnosed during the same period with M.
tuberculosis isolates susceptible to INH, RIF, SM, and other drugs tested (controls); 59 of the controls were known to be HIV-positive.
Case-patients were more likely to have been hospitalized at hospital C at least 30 days before their first positive M.
tuberculosis culture (when limited to case-patients and controls with HIV infection, 13/16 vs.
21/59; OR=7.8; 95% CI=1.8-46.4).
Since March 31, 1991, four additional patients have been diagnosed with M.
tuberculosis resistant to at least INH, RIF, and SM; all four had HIV infection.
Hospital D From January 1990 through March 1991, 23 patients diagnosed with MDR-TB had isolates resistant to at least INH and RIF (case-patients).
For 13 of these patients, the isolates were resistant to other anti-TB drugs (four with resistance to INH, RIF, SM, and EMB).
Of the 21 (91%) patients who were known to be HIV-seropositive, 20 had AIDS-defining conditions.
Of the 23 total patients, 19 (83%) died a median of 4 weeks after diagnosis of TB.
For 16 patients, the cause of death appeared to be TB.
The 23 case-patients were compared with 23 patients diagnosed with TB during the same period with M.
tuberculosis isolates susceptible to INH, RIF, and other drugs tested (controls); 11 of the controls were known to be HIV-positive.
Before onset of TB, case-patients were more likely to have been hospitalized at hospital D (when limited to case-patients and controls with HIV infection, 19/21 vs.
2/11; OR=42.8; 95% CI=4.0-576.5).
Since April 1, 1991, three additional patients have been diagnosed with M.
tuberculosis resistant to INH and RIF; all three had HIV infection.
Other Outbreak Characteristics Late Diagnosis of TB and Recognition of Drug Resistance.
In all four hospitals, because radiologic and bacteriologic signs often were inconclusive, the timely diagnosis of TB was delayed for some case-patients.
For example, cavitation on chest radiograph was present in only seven (8%) of the 87 outbreak cases.
In three hospitals, acid-fast bacilli (AFB) were not detected in sputum smears of 14 (25%) of the 55 MDR-TB case-patients who had sputum submitted for AFB examination.
In the fourth hospital, sputum smears were not routinely examined for AFB.
Furthermore, the time taken to complete and verify drug-susceptibility testing and report the results to hospitals and clinicians often contributed to delayed recognition of drug resistance.
In general, drug-susceptibility testing took at least 8 weeks to complete.
In many instances, several factors, including repeating susceptibility tests to confirm results, extended this time up to 6 months.
Ineffective Patient Isolation.
Reviews of medical records indicated that, because of late diagnosis and recognition of drug resistance, AFB isolation precautions were sometimes delayed and/or not maintained until the patient was rendered noninfectious (3).
In addition, hospital personnel reported that, in some instances, doors to isolation rooms were left open, health-care workers (HCWs) and visitors entered AFB isolation rooms wearing no masks or using masks improperly, and patients in AFB isolation left their rooms without wearing masks.
Finally, testing of direction of air flow with smoke tubes in all four hospitals indicated that many AFB isolation rooms had positive pressure relative to hallways.
Probable Nosocomial Transmission to HCWs.
Eight cases of TB have been reported among HCWs in these hospitals.
Two of the eight had known exposure to outbreak case-patients and had M.
tuberculosis isolates resistant to the same drugs as outbreak cases.
One of these two HCWs was infected with HIV and died after a fulminant clinical course of TB; the other, who was HIV-seronegative and had clinical and radiographic signs compatible with primary TB, has improved with therapy.
Of the other six HCWs with TB, three had known or possible exposure to outbreak case-patients but had isolates with different drug-susceptibility patterns; one had M.
tuberculosis isolated, but drug susceptibility and clinical information is incomplete; and two were diagnosed clinically and did not have M.
tuberculosis isolated.
Of the six HCWs, four were HIV-seropositive; HIV serostatus for the other two was unknown.
In two of the hospitals, positive tuberculin skin-test reactions were recorded after outbreak exposure in 13 (33%) of 39 and six (50%) of 12 other HCWs, respectively, who had reported negative skin-test reactions within the previous 2 years.
Reported by: M Fischl, MD, R Uttamchandani, MD, R Reyes, MD, T Cleary, PhD, J Otten, A Breeden, Univ of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center; W Bigler, PhD, H Valdez, R Cacciatore, J Witte, MD, RS Hopkins, MD, State Epidemiologist, Florida Dept of Health and Rehabilitative Svcs.
MH Grieco, MD, J Williams, E Sordillo, MD, ME Gilligan, N Schneider, St.
Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York; VL Sharp, MD, P Rivera, A Pitta, MD, St.
Clare's Health and Hospital Center; MP Mullen, MD, MT Gordon, MA, CP Busillo, MD, JF Boyle, PhD, New York; J Adler, MD, KR Ong, MD, New York City Dept of Health; GT DiFerdinando, Jr, MD, DL Morse, MD, State Epidemiologist, New York State Dept of Health.
Div of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for Prevention Svcs; Div of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases, Div of HIV/AIDS, and Hospital Infections Program, National Center for Infectious Diseases; Div of Field Epidemiology, Epidemiology Program Office; Div of Surveillance, Hazard Evaluations, and Field Studies, and Div of Physical Sciences and Engineering, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health; Special Programs Group, Office of the Director, National Center for Environmental Health and Injury Control, CDC.
Editorial Note Editorial Note: The findings in this report illustrate the increased susceptibility of HIV-infected persons, particularly those with severe immunosuppression, to life-threatening nosocomially transmitted TB; underscore the importance of implementing infection-control precautions to prevent transmission of M.
tuberculosis to patients and HCWs (3); and identify additional issues related to the prevention and control of TB outbreaks caused by organisms resistant to the two major anti-TB drugs, INH and RIF.
Although the investigations focused on MDR-TB, the findings also underscore the infectiousness of TB cases in general, the susceptibility of HIV-infected patients (6-8) to rapid progression to clinical TB after infection with M.
tuberculosis, and the potential for rapid spread of TB when immunocompromised patients and HCWs are exposed to patients who have infectious TB.
Of the 83 patients identified with HIV infection, 76 had clinical diagnosis of AIDS, indicating advanced immunosuppression.
At least two categories of factors may have contributed to these outbreaks.
First, diagnosis of TB in HIV-infected patients was delayed, in many cases, because of unusual clinical and radiographic characteristics, and recognition of drug resistance was delayed because of the lengthy time required for laboratory identification, confirmation, and reporting of drug-resistance patterns.
tuberculosis drug resistance was identified as a problem and the pattern of resistance known, no reliably effective therapeutic regimens could be prescribed.
Thus, treatment regimens had to be adjusted empirically when patients failed to respond, and patients sometimes remained infectious for prolonged periods.
Second, in all four hospitals, AFB isolation precautions sometimes were delayed on admission or readmission of symptomatic TB patients because of delays in TB diagnosis and in identification of drug resistance.
Furthermore, AFB precautions were not always maintained for an adequate period.
In addition, lapses occurred in AFB isolation precautions, and AFB isolation rooms often did not have appropriate negative pressure ventilation.
Other factors that may have contributed to these outbreaks included the clustering of highly susceptible (i.e., immunocompromised) HIV-infected patients in these hospitals and inadequate numbers of appropriate rooms for AFB isolation.
In at least one of the four hospitals (hospital A), sufficient time has elapsed to begin to assess the impact of control measures (see box).
Although the number of MDR-TB cases decreased substantially after implementation of these measures, the specific contribution of each strategy to the decrease in cases is unknown.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of this comprehensive approach is under way at each of the other three hospitals.
Because of the likelihood that MDR-TB was also spread in the community, local health departments are collaborating with the hospitals to identify and examine community contacts of the outbreak case-patients.
These outbreaks underscore the need for all health-care facilities, especially those in which persons with HIV infection receive care, to implement published recommendations for prevention of TB transmission (3) (see box).
However, the involvement of organisms resistant to INH and RIF suggests the need for additional measures.
Anti-TB drug-susceptibility testing should be performed on initial M.
tuberculosis isolates from all TB patients.
Isolates obtained after relapse or apparent treatment failure should also be tested for drug susceptibility.
Drug-susceptibility testing should be completed rapidly, and results should be reported promptly to the health-care provider and the health department, even if confirmatory tests are planned.
The use of radiometric culture and RFLP techniques may facilitate rapid detection of drug-resistant M.
tuberculosis strains and should be used when appropriate.
Hospitals and health departments should periodically examine MDR-TB incidence and resistance patterns to detect outbreaks and to provide a basis for drug regimens for patients with suspected MDR-TB.
Until rapid methods for determining M.
tuberculosis drug susceptibility are routinely available, however, suspicion of drug resistance based on clinical and epidemiologic grounds is the only means available for early detection of MDR-TB and prevention of outbreaks by effective treatment.
Persons at high risk for developing MDR-TB include 1) immunocompromised persons and others who have recently been exposed to infectious MDR-TB and 2) persons who have been previously treated for TB but who failed to take medications as prescribed or were prescribed an inadequate or ineffective treatment regimen.
No data are available from controlled trials regarding the treatment of patients with TB resistant to INH and RIF.
However, pending drug-susceptibility test results, patients likely to have MDR-TB should be treated promptly with regimens containing INH, RIF, and pyrazinamide (since these drugs may be effective) plus at least two other drugs to which the M.
tuberculosis strain is likely to be susceptible (based on surveillance of local drug-resistance patterns).
Expert consultation, often available through the state or local health department, may be advisable--especially if clinical specimens are AFB-smear- and/or culture-positive and the patient fails to respond to treatment.
Treatment should be modified accordingly when drug-susceptibility results are available.
All hospital personnel, including volunteers, who may be exposed to patients with suspected or known TB should be educated about the medical consequences of becoming infected with MDR-TB and should follow appropriate precautions for minimizing such exposure (3).
Their education should include information about the risk for life-threatening clinical TB in persons with immunocompromising conditions, including HIV infection.
HCWs and other persons exposed to patients with potentially infectious TB for whom appropriate AFB isolation precautions are not in place should be promptly evaluated to determine whether treatment for TB or preventive therapy for tuberculous infection is indicated (3).
HCWs who are diagnosed with active pulmonary or laryngeal TB should have temporary work restriction (3).
Preventive therapy recommendations for persons exposed to or infected with multidrug-resistant strains of M.
tuberculosis will depend on drug-susceptibility patterns.
CDC, in consultation with additional experts, is developing guidelines for clinicians managing such patients.
It is unknown whether vaccination with BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccines licensed for use in the United States will protect HCWs against TB (9).
Furthermore, BCG vaccination is contraindicated for persons with HIV infection.
The Immunization Practices Advisory Committee and the Advisory Council for Elimination of Tuberculosis are being consulted to determine if recommendations on BCG vaccination for HCWs should be modified in view of these MDR-TB outbreaks.
All TB cases identified in hospitals should be reported promptly to the appropriate health departments to facilitate community contact identification procedures.
Outbreaks of MDR-TB should be promptly investigated and reported through state and territorial health departments to the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for Prevention Services, CDC; telephone (404) 639-2519.
Health departments can usually provide additional services to prevent development or spread of MDR-TB, including directly supervised administration of TB medications in the patient's home or other settings; arrangements for temporary housing for TB patients who may be infectious and who are homeless; initiation of legal quarantine procedures for infectious TB patients, when needed; medical and nursing case management; expert consultation; and educational materials on TB.
References CDC.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis to health-care workers and HIV-infected patients in an urban hospital--Florida.
MMWR 1990;39:718-22.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36(no.
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of tuberculosis in health-care settings, with special focus on HIV-related issues.
MMWR 1990;39(no.
Edlin BR, Tokars JI, Grieco MH, et al.
A nosocomial outbreak of isoniazid- and streptomycin-resistant tuberculosis (TB) among AIDS patients at a New York City hospital (Abstract).
VII International Conference on AIDS, Florence, Italy, June 16-21, 1991;1:224.
Cave DM, Eisenach KD, McDermott PF, Bates JH, Crawford JT.
IS6110: Conservation of sequence in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and its utilization in DNA fingerprinting.
Mol Cell Probes 1991;5:73-80.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous HIV-infected patients.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545-50.
Di Perri G, Cruciani M, Danzi MC, et al.
Nosocomial epidemic of active tuberculosis among HIV-infected patients.
Lancet 1989;23/30:1502-4.
Barnes PF, Bloch AB, Davidson PT, et al.
Tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1991;324:1644-50.
ACIP/Advisory Committee for Elimination of Tuberculosis.
Use of BCG vaccines in the control of tuberculosis: a joint statement by the ACIP and the Advisory Committee for Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1988;37:663-4,669-75.
Summary of Recommendations for Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Settings* Early identification and treatment of persons with active tuberculosis (TB) Maintain a high index of suspicion for TB to identify cases rapidly.
Promptly initiate effective multidrug anti-TB therapy based on clinical and drug-resistance surveillance data.
Prevention of spread of infectious droplet nuclei by source control methods and by reduction of microbial contamination of indoor air Initiate acid-fast bacilli (AFB) isolation precautions immediately for all patients who are suspected or confirmed to have active TB and who may be infectious.
AFB isolation precautions include use of a private room with negative pressure in relation to surrounding areas and a minimum of six air exchanges per hour.
Air from the room should be exhausted directly to the outside.
Use of ultraviolet lamps and/or high-efficiency particulate air filters to supplement ventilation may be considered.
Persons entering the AFB isolation room should use disposable particulate respirators that fit snugly around the face.
Continue AFB isolation precautions until there is clinical evidence of reduced infectiousness (i.e., cough has substantially decreased, and the number of organisms on sequential sputum smears is decreasing).
If drug resistance is suspected or confirmed, continue AFB precautions until the sputum smear is negative for AFB.
Use special precautions during cough-inducing procedures.
Surveillance for TB transmission Maintain surveillance for TB infection among health-care workers (HCWs) by routine, periodic tuberculin skin testing.
Recommend appropriate preventive therapy for HCWs when indicated.
Maintain surveillance for TB cases among patients and HCWs.
Promptly initiate contact investigation procedures among HCWs, patients, and visitors exposed to an untreated, or ineffectively treated, infectious TB patient for whom appropriate AFB procedures are not in place.
Recommend appropriate therapy or preventive therapy for contacts with disease or TB infection without current disease.
Therapeutic regimens should be chosen based on the clinical history and local drug-resistance surveillance data.
*Adapted from reference 3.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports June 06, 1992 / 41(RR10) Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Migrant Farm Workers Recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis * Summary Farm workers are approximately six times more likely to develop tuberculosis (TB) than the general population of employed adults.
These recommendations are presented to assist health-care providers serving migrant and seasonal farm workers.
The following services, listed by priority, that should be available for migrant and seasonal farm workers and their family members are: a) detection and diagnosis of those with current symptoms of active TB; b) appropriate treatment and monitoring for those who have current disease; c) contact investigation and appropriate preventive therapy for those exposed to infectious persons; d) screening and appropriate preventive therapy for asymptomatically infected workers who may be immunosuppressed, such as those with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; e) screening and appropriate preventive therapy for children of migrant and seasonal farm workers; and f) widespread tuberculin test screening for workers and families with preventive therapy prescribed, as appropriate.
Health-care providers should immediately perform appropriate diagnostic studies for persons with a productive, prolonged cough, or other symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis.
Health departments should be immediately notified when TB is suspected or diagnosed to enable examination of contacts and initiation of other health department diagnostic, preventive, or patient management services.
Workers and family members with uncomplicated pulmonary TB should be treated with a regimen that includes isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (or streptomycin).
Drug-resistant TB is an important consideration since it requires altered treatment regimes and because higher rates of resistance have been found in ethnic and social groups comprising much of the migrant farm worker-force.
Patients should be monitored carefully for compliance, treatment response, and toxicity.
Ideally, patients should be placed on directly observed therapy given by a well-trained, outreach worker from the same cultural/language background as the patients.
INTRODUCTION The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET) has published a plan for the elimination of tuberculosis (TB) from the United States by the Year 2010 (1).
The plan gives top priority to implementation of strategies to prevent TB in identifiable high-incidence population groups, including migrant and seasonal farm workers.
In this document, a "migrant farm worker" is defined as a laborer whose principal employment is in agriculture on a seasonal basis and who establishes for the purposes of such employment a temporary abode.
The term "seasonal farm worker" means a person whose principal employment is in agriculture on a seasonal basis, but who does not move from area to area for work.
These recommendations are intended for health-care providers serving migrant and seasonal farm workers -- providers who can contribute to the elimination of TB in this population through improved screening, prevention, and control activities.
The recommendations are also directed to health departments because of their important role in assisting migrant health-care providers in the prevention and control of TB among migrant and seasonal farm workers.
Finally, these recommendations are directed to public policy and decision makers because many health departments and migrant health-care providers do not now have the resources and staff to fully implement these recommendations.
MIGRANT FARM WORKERS AND MIGRANT PATTERNS Information provided by the Office of Migrant Health, DHHS, indicates that there are an estimated 4.2 million migrant and seasonal farm workers in the United States.
Approximately 500,000 (12%) are served by federally supported migrant health centers (2).
Compared with the general population, these workers often have numerous and complex health problems (e.g., TB, parasitic diseases, other communicable diseases, diabetes, hypertension, high-risk pregnancy, and neonatal problems), and they often live in substandard housing and in very crowded conditions.
Continuity of medical care is difficult for migrant farm workers because they move often.
Migrant and seasonal farm workers and their families often face linguistic, cultural, financial, immigration, educational, and other barriers that also make it difficult for them to obtain needed health-care services.
These barriers must be addressed by migrant health and public health officials when designing and carrying out strategies for implementing the recommendations in this report.
Migrant farm workers in the United States traditionally follow one of three geographic migratory streams (travel patterns: East Coast, Midwest, and West Coast).
The race, ethnicity, and cultural background of migrant farm workers vary somewhat from stream to stream.
Living and working conditions, as well as access to transportation, also vary.
These differing characteristics may affect access to health-care and the formulation of strategies for TB prevention and control.
In all three streams, families often migrate together to maximize family income.
Some settle in a town to pursue better educational or work opportunities, but often remain tied to local agricultural activities.
The primary residence or homebase areas (e.g., California, Texas, Puerto Rico, and Florida) for all three streams are economically disadvantaged areas.
East Coast Migrant Stream In the East Coast stream, most workers have their primary homebase, or winter home, in southern Florida.
The largest cultural groups in this stream are Hispanic, primarily Mexican Americans and Mexicans, Central American refugees, and Puerto Ricans; other groups in this stream are American blacks, Haitians and Appalachian whites.
Migrants in the East Coast stream most often reside in ethnically homogeneous labor camps, characterized by family unit housing or single-sex barracks.
A primary contractor or crew leader usually contracts directly with a grower to supply farm workers.
The crew leader also provides meals and transportation, the cost of which is usually deducted from workers' pay.
Farm workers, during the harvest season, may change camps or move to a new location with a crew or group.
Thus, outreach is a very important factor in delivering health care to this migrant population.
Midwest Migrant Stream In the Midwest stream, most farm workers use south Texas as their homebase and work winter crops there before moving up into the midwestern states.
South Texas is the largest migrant homebase area in the nation.
Migrant farm workers from there also may move into the East and West Coast migrant streams.
Mexican Americans constitute the majority of migrant farm workers in this stream, but recently the number of Southeast Asian migrant farm workers has been increasing in this stream.
The basic Midwest migrant family unit travels "upstream" from the homebase community in groups with children and other relatives, sometimes also accompanied by friends, including single males.
The migrant groups generally travel in cars with the crew leader or "truckero" transporting personal possessions in a truck for the crew.
The crew leader's truck also may be used to haul produce during harvesting.
Migrants in southern Texas live as part of the community in "colonias" or unincorporated areas.
These areas are not required to have water, sewage, or electric services, and some colonias have none.
Three to six families may live under one roof on a 20' by 40' plot of land.
Family members cross the border to visit or stay with relatives in Mexico during the winter months.
When not in the homebase area, migrants in the Midwest stream live primarily in labor camps.
West Coast Migrant Stream Most migrant farm workers in the West Coast stream use southern California as homebase.
This stream runs north through Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
The West Coast stream consists mostly of Mexican Americans from the southwest, primarily California and Texas.
American blacks, non-Hispanic whites, and increasing numbers of Southeast Asians and Central Americans comprise a smaller percentage of the migrant farm workers in this stream.
Southeast Asians, however, quickly settle in the area, leaving the migrant stream.
The primary migrant units in the West Coast Stream are individual families.
Some single males come from Mexico to work the crops and then return home.
Many of these workers own their own cars and have more mobility and better access to medical care.
Generally, there are better housing conditions in the West Coast stream than in the other streams.
However, migrants are living under bridges and along river banks in Southern California.
As in other migrant streams, these migrant families live in labor camps when they leave their homebase.
TUBERCULOSIS IN MIGRANT FARM WORKERS Although the magnitude of the problem of TB among migrant and seasonal farm workers is not clearly established, a survey conducted by CDC during the period 1985-1989 assessed the occupational and residential characteristics of TB cases reported in 29 states; overall farm workers accounted for more than 5% of all employed cases.
Based on data from that survey, the risk of TB among farm workers was estimated to be six times greater than the general population of employed adults (CDC, unpublished data).
The first population-based study of TB in a random sample of migrant farm workers, conducted in 1988 in North Carolina, indicated a prevalence of active TB in 0.47% of Hispanics and 3.5% of American blacks (3).
Migrant farm workers also have high rates of asymptomatic TB infection (positive skin tests).
A 1987 study showed a skin-test positivity rate of 29% among U.S.-born blacks and 55% among Haitian migrant farm workers in the Delmarva Peninsula (4).
Tuberculin testing of migrant farm workers employed in Virginia's Eastern Shore showed overall skin-test positivity rates of 39% and 48% in 1984 and 1985, respectively (5).
In a separate study conducted in 1988, Hispanic migrant farm workers in North Carolina had a tuberculin skin-test positivity rate of 31% (6).
A 1988 study demonstrated a 47% prevalence rate of TB infection among migrant farm workers 15-34 years of age and a 68% prevalence rate among those greater than 34 years of age (7).
In the population-based study (3), tuberculin positivity rates ranged from 33% (Hispanics) to 62% (blacks) to 76% (Haitians).
These high rates of asymptomatic TB infection suggest that screening and prevention activities should be directed to migrant farm workers.
INFECTION AND TRANSMISSION The TB organism M.
tuberculosis, also known as the tubercle bacillus, is transmitted primarily through the air from persons with TB of the lung who are coughing.
Persons who share the same air with an infectious person for long periods of time are at risk of becoming infected.
This includes persons living in the same household with the infectious person and those who travel in the same vehicle.
Most persons who become infected usually develop a positive TB skin test, but remain asymptomatic and are not infectious.
The lifetime risk of acquiring clinically active TB disease is about 10%; it is greatest in the first 2 years after infection, but disease can also occur many years later.
Impairment of the immune system, such as by HIV infection, increases the risk of clinically active TB.
RECOMMENDATIONS ACET developed these recommendations for the Public Health Service, public health departments, and for health-care providers serving migrant and seasonal farm workers.
Prevention and Control The following prevention and control activities should be undertaken for all migrant and seasonal farm workers and their families.
The services of highest priority that should be available to all workers and their families, are: Detection and diagnosis of those persons with current symptoms of active TB.
Appropriate treatment for those persons with disease.
Contact investigation and appropriate preventive therapy for those persons exposed to infectious (sputum positive) TB.
Screening and appropriate preventive therapy for workers who may be immunosuppressed, including those with HIV infection.
The second priority is screening and appropriate preventive therapy for children of migrant and seasonal farm workers.
The third priority is widespread tuberculin skin-test screening of workers and families, followed by appropriate preventive therapy.
Providing the above services will require a commitment of resources from the national, state, and local levels.
Diagnosis Pulmonary TB should be suspected in persons with a productive, prolonged cough ( greater than 2 weeks in duration).
Other common symptoms of TB include fever, chills, night sweats, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, and, occasionally, hemoptysis (coughing up blood).
Persons with suspected pulmonary TB should receive an immediate evaluation that includes: a medical history and physical examination, chest x-ray, Mantoux tuberculin test, at least three sputum specimens (collected on separate days) for acid fast bacilli (AFB) smear, culture and drug susceptibility testing, and HIV-antibody counseling and testing.
If the clinician confirms or suspects TB as a result of this examination, the local health department should be notified so that appropriate examination of contacts can be initiated.
Migrant health-care providers should seek, and health departments should provide, no-cost TB medical consultation, medication and laboratory services for migrant farm workers.
Hospitalization and Isolation Health departments should ensure that inpatient care (e.g., hospitalization) is available at no cost to migrant farm workers or family members.
Persons hospitalized with infectious TB should be placed in AFB isolation until they become noninfectious (8).
Health department TB control staff should be consulted on issues regarding hospitalization, housing, and return to work.
The restriction of normal activities and the duration of such restrictions depends upon: the degree of infectiousness, the response to treatment, the nature of activities, and the likelihood that others might be exposed.
Some patients are never infectious and have no need for restrictions.
Care must be taken in housing TB patients to ensure that those who may be infectious do not expose uninfected farm workers or family members.
Patients who feel well may be able to continue normal work activities, particularly in an open-air work setting where there is little risk of exposure for new or highly susceptible contacts.
Treatment (Tables 1 and 2) Migrant and seasonal farm workers and family members with uncomplicated pulmonary TB can be treated with the following 6- month regimen: isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (or streptomycin) given for 2 months (initial phase), followed by isoniazid and rifampin for 4 months (second phase).
Ethambutol (or streptomycin) should be included in the initial regimen until drug susceptibility studies are available.
Among migrant workers, higher rates of resistance to isoniazid and streptomycin are known to occur.
Drug resistance is also more common in patients with a history of previous treatment and in contacts to drug-resistant patients.
Medication does not have to be given on a daily basis throughout the entire course of treatment.
Several options exist for administering directly observed therapy.
Intermittent (e.g., twice weekly) therapy may be administered during the second phase after daily therapy during the initial phase.
For those for whom prolonged supervision of daily therapy during the initial phase is impractical, a regimen of daily isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (or streptomycin) for 2 weeks, followed by twice weekly administration of the same drugs for 6 weeks, and subsequently twice weekly isoniazid and rifampin for 16 weeks has been shown to be highly effective (9).
Alternatively, three times weekly administration of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (or streptomycin) for 6 months yields equivalent results (10).
(When isoniazid, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide are administered 2 or 3 times weekly instead of every day, the dosage must be increased; the rifampin dose is the same for daily or intermittent therapy.) In cases of smear and culture negative pulmonary TB, when drug resistance is unlikely, reducing the 6-month regimen to 4 months is acceptable.
The same regimen should be used to treat sputum-culture-negative, tuberculin-positive persons with radiographic evidence of healed TB or silicosis.
All persons with confirmed or suspected TB should be offered HIV testing and counseling.
For HIV seropositive patients, treatment should be continued for a minimum of 9 months and for at least 6 months beyond documented culture conversion as evidenced by three negative cultures.
Patients treated with rifampin who are on methadone should have the methadone dosage increased to avoid withdrawal symptoms resulting from the interaction between the two drugs (11).
The treatment regimen should be appropriately revised if resistance to any of the drugs in the regimen is found.
Treatment of extrapulmonary TB and TB related to drug resistance or HIV infection may be complicated.
For this reason, a health department or another qualified TB and infectious disease medical expert should be consulted.
Monitoring Response (Table 3) Patients should be medically assessed at least twice monthly for symptoms and by smear until they become asymptomatic and smear negative.
Cultures should be obtained at least monthly until negative.
Frequent smears and cultures are the most reliable means for detecting treatment failure.
Treatment failure is often due to patient noncompliance with therapy, but also may be due to an ineffective regimen (e.g., when the organisms are resistant to the drugs).
Patients should demonstrate sputum conversion within 3 months.
Appropriate medical consultation should be sought for patients whose sputum does not convert within this time.
Such patients must be evaluated for noncompliance and drug-resistant organisms.
Toxicity monitoring must be individualized and based on the drugs used in a given regimen and patient factors related to toxicity (e.g., age and alcohol use).
Patients should be evaluated at least monthly during therapy and questioned about reactions to determine toxicity, even if no problems are apparent.
Patients should be specifically instructed to look for symptoms associated with the most common reactions to the medications they are receiving.
If symptoms suggesting drug toxicity occur, appropriate laboratory testing and medical evaluation should be performed immediately.
All patients receiving isoniazid, rifampin, and/or pyrazinamide should be instructed to report immediately any symptoms suggesting hepatitis (loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, jaundice, malaise, unexplained elevated temperature of greater than 3 days duration, or abdominal tenderness).
Peripheral neuropathy associated with isoniazid administration is uncommon at doses of 5 mg/kg.
Among persons with conditions in which neuropathy is common (diabetes, uremia, alcoholism, malnutrition), pyridoxine (50 mg day) may be given with isoniazid.
It is also advisable to give pyridoxine with isoniazid to pregnant women or persons who have a seizure disorder.
Hyperuricemia may occur in patients receiving pyrazinamide, but acute gout is uncommon.
The interaction of isoniazid and phenytoin increases the serum concentration of both drugs.
When these drugs are given concomitantly, the serum level of phenytoin should be monitored.
Rifampin may accelerate clearance of drugs metabolized by the liver.
These include methadone, coumadin derivatives, glucocorticoids, estrogens, oral hypoglycemic agents, digitalis, anticonvulsants, ketoconazole, and cyclosporin.
By accelerating estrogen metabolism, rifampin may interfere with the effectiveness of oral contraceptives.
Outreach workers responsible for directly observed therapy should be trained to identify symptoms related to reactions and toxicity.
They should also be trained to obtain sputum specimens.
Monitoring Compliance Treatment must be continuous to be effective.
Identify noncompliance early, before drug resistance, treatment failure, or relapse occurs, or before the patient is lost to follow-up.
A number of techniques have been developed to assist in identifying the noncompliant patient.
The majority of noncompliant patients is determined by their failure to return for follow-up clinic visits.
Thus, having an accurate appointment and delinquent referral system is paramount.
An effective communication system is also needed to assure that the discovery of missed appointments immediately comes to the attention of the responsible public health officials.
Monthly pill counts are also helpful in early identification of noncompliance.
The best way to ensure compliance is to place patients on directly observed therapy given by a well-trained outreach worker from the same cultural/language background as the patient population.
Health departments should provide staff for this purpose.
As an alternative, a concerned and interested person may be identified to directly observe the patient's therapy (e.g., family member).
Incentives and enablers should be considered to encourage patient compliance.
These might include such items as food or food vouchers and transportation vouchers or tokens.
Long-term institutionalization is sometimes necessary for the management of seriously uncooperative patients.
If, despite the best efforts of migrant health-care and health department staff, an infectious patient refuses treatment, temporary involuntary isolation may be mecessary in accordance with state and local public health laws and regulations.
This option should be used only in rare instances and only after due process.
Contact Investigation Contact investigation should begin as soon as a migrant or seasonal farm worker or family member is suspected to have infectious TB.
The health department assumes this responsibility.
The investigation normally involves a visit to the patient's work and housing site to observe transmission possibilities, identify contacts, and to note factors that might affect compliance with treatment or preventive therapy.
The investigation should begin with close contacts who are most likely to be infected, usually the persons living with and sharing the same air space as the patient.
Close contacts include family members of workers traveling and working alone, if they have lived in the household during the preceding year.
(The health department can make arrangements to ensure that out-of-area family members and other remote contacts receive appropriate examinations.) High priority should be given to rapid examination of close contacts who are children.
Newly infected children can develop life threatening meningitis within weeks of infection unless preventive therapy is administered.
Contacts should be interviewed for symptoms and given a tuberculin skin-test using the Mantoux technique.
Those with symptoms of respiratory disease or skin-test reactions of greater than or equal to 5mm should be given chest radiograph examinations.
All contacts with reactions of greater than or equal to 5mm should be considered for preventive therapy.
Close contacts of highly infectious persons, especially young children, should be considered for preventive therapy even if the initial tuberculin test after exposure is negative.
The preventive therapy can be halted if contact with the infectious person(s) is discontinued and a repeat tuberculin test, 3 months after exposure, remains negative.
Screening Screening should be carried out by migrant health-care providers in cooperation with employers and local health departments.
In the absence of definitive data, screening of migrant farm workers should be considered annually.
Emphasis should be placed on screening and preventive therapy conducted in the homebase sites.
However, since access to health care is sometimes better in non-homebase areas, TB screening and preventive therapy programs should be encouraged wherever resources and access to migrant farm workers permit.
This is particularly important for "settled out" workers who choose not to return to homebase areas.
The Mantoux tuberculin skin test should be used to identify persons who have been infected with M.
tuberculosis.
Multiple puncture tests should not be used.
Migrant and seasonal farm workers, as well as members of their families, should be considered tuberculin positive according to the following criteria.
Outside the United States, many countries use Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccination as part of their TB control activities, especially for infants.
The degree of sensitivity to tuberculin that is acquired after BCG vaccination is highly variable.
No reliable method exists for distinguishing tuberculin reactions caused by previous BCG vaccination from those caused by natural mycobacterial infections.
Positive tuberculin reactions in BCG-vaccinated persons from high prevalence areas usually indicate infection with M.
tuberculosis.
Such persons should be evaluated for preventive therapy.
Persons who have tuberculous infection should receive a chest radiograph.
If the radiograph does not show TB, preventive therapy should be considered.
Persons with abnormal radiographs and/or other symptoms suggesting TB should be referred for further evaluation.
Preventive Therapy The use of preventive therapy can substantially reduce the risk of TB (by more than 90%) in infected persons who comply with therapy (12).
A minimum of 6 months of preventive therapy is recommended.
However, a 12-month course is recommended for tuberculin-positive persons with HIV infection.
Whenever necessary, preventive therapy should be directly observed and should be administered twice weekly to facilitate the supervision of treatment (INH 15mg/kg up to 900mg).
Before migrant farm workers and their family members are placed on preventive therapy, ensure that they are likely to complete at least 6 months of the regimen.
The rationale for this policy is to ensure that persons receive the benefits from 6 months of preventive therapy and not just the early risk of toxicity.
Persons with a positive tuberculin reaction who are not placed on preventive therapy should be counseled about the meaning of the skin-test reaction and instructed to seek medical attention if they develop symptoms suggesting TB.
The following list defines those migrant and seasonal farm workers and their family members with positive tuberculin reactions (who have not been previously treated) who should be considered candidates for preventive therapy regardless of age: Persons with known or suspected HIV infection, including injecting drug users.
Close contacts of infectious persons.
Recent tuberculin skin test converters (defined as a greater than or equal to 10 mm increase for those less than 35 years old; or a greater than or equal to 15 mm increase for those greater than or equal to 35 years old).
Persons with medical conditions that increase the risk of TB (e.g., diabetes, being 10% or more below ideal body weight, or prolonged adrenocorticosteroid therapy).
Persons with a positive tuberculin test should be considered for preventive therapy even if they have no other medical risk factor when they are less than 35 years of age.
Before therapy is initiated, baseline liver function studies should be done for all persons greater than or equal to 35 years of age.
Persons on preventive therapy should be monitored at least monthly, by questioning, for: compliance with prescribed regimen, symptoms of neurotoxicity (such as paresthesia of hands or feet), and signs consistent with hepatotoxicity (e.g., loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, persistent dark urine, jaundice, malaise, or unexplained elevated temperature of greater than 3 days duration, or abdominal tenderness especially in the upper right quadrant).
Patients should be advised to report immediately to their health-care provider if any of these signs or symptoms occur.
Pill counts should be done each month for all persons on preventive therapy.
Follow-Up When a migrant farm worker is departing and requires treatment for active TB, preventive treatment, or diagnostic services, health providers should contact their state health department TB control officers to apprise them of the need for follow-up and of the next possible destination of the farm worker.
Out-of-state communications regarding TB care should be routed through state health departments to ensure that the information is transmitted appropriately and that necessary follow-up is initiated.
Often the health-care provider or health department will receive a TB laboratory report after the person departs for another area.
The report should be immediately telephoned or expeditiously mailed to the health department or health-care provider in the next area.
Although sharing necessary information between health-care providers and health departments is encouraged to protect the health of the worker and the public, information should be shared only on a need-to-know basis.
Measures must be taken to ensure confidentiality.
Migrants who are placed on antituberculosis treatment or preventive therapy should be given records they can take with them to indicate their current treatment and diagnostic status.
Special care should be taken to instruct such persons on how to take their medications and how and where to get additional medication and medical care at the destination sites.
Different areas have different protocols for the treatment of active TB and for the preventive treatment of infected persons.
However, once a patient starts treatment or a preventive treatment regimen, the same regimen should be continued in the migrant's next location (unless medically contraindicated).
Role of Public Health Departments Health departments should ensure the provision of TB services for migrant and seasonal farm workers regardless of ability to pay.
These services should include diagnostic services, antituberculosis medication, laboratory services, contact follow-up and inpatient and outpatient clinical services.
Making medical care accessible to the migrant farm workers and their families often means providing services in migrant health-care centers or near the work site.
Health departments should make outreach services available for directly observed therapy.
Health departments should ensure that expert TB medical consultation is available to the clinicians and nurses providing health-care services to migrant farm workers.
Health departments should teach migrant health personnel how to perform and read intracutaneous Mantoux tuberculin tests.
To aid in this training, CDC has made training materials available through state health departments.
Whenever possible, physicians and nurses from the migrant health centers should be invited to attend state and local health department TB control staff training programs.
Role of the Public Health Service The Public Health Service (PHS) should promote collaboration between health departments and migrant health centers in the homebase states and elsewhere to plan and carry out TB screening and preventive therapy programs.
The PHS should require documentation of such collaboration as part of applications for federally funded migrant health and TB grants and cooperative agreements.
In addition, as part of routine site visits, PHS staff should review related activities and make proposals for more effective implementation of the recommendations in this document.
The CDC and the Health Resources and Services Administration, with the assistance of the Migrant Clinicians Network, should jointly develop a prototype TB medical history card to be given to migrant workers.
The card should indicate results of the worker's latest tuberculin test, history of preventive therapy, and appropriate current and past treatment and diagnostic status.
This card can serve as a supplement to, but cannot substitute for, complete medical records Full implementation will require the commitment of additional resources at the national, state and local levels.
Implementation of these recommendations is an important step in the TB elimination effort.
Most importantly, implementation of these recommendations will be of great benefit to individual migrant farm workers and their families whose economic and social progress is being impeded by the occurrence of TB.
For further information on TB diagnosis, treatment, monitoring, and control the following references are recommended: Treatment of Tuberculosis and Tuberculosis Infection in Adults and Children, American Review of Respiratory Disease, 1986;134(2):355-63.
Diagnostic Standards and Classification of Tuberculosis 1990, American Review of Respiratory Diseases, 1990;142(3):725-35.
Control of Tuberculosis in the United States, American Review of Respiratory Diseases, 1992 (in press).
Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis, developed by the American Thoracic Society and CDC and supported by a grant from the Pittsfield AntiTuberculosis Association.
Improving Patient Compliance, CDC, revised February, 1990.
Reprints are available from either state or local health departments or from American Lung Association offices.
References CDC.
A strategic plan for the elimination of tuberculosis in the United States.
MMWR 1989;38(No.S-3):1-25.
Health Resources and Services Administration.
An atlas of state profiles which estimates number of migrant and seasonal farm workers and members of their families.
1990:9-10,13.
Ciesielski SD, Seed JR, Esposito PH, Hunter N.
The epidemiology of TB among North Carolina migrant farm workers.
JAMA 1991;265:1715-9.
Jacobson ML, Mercer MA, Miller LK, Simpson TW.
Tuberculosis risk among migrant farm workers on the delmarva peninsula.
Am J Public Health 1987;77:29-32.
Tuberculosis among migrant farm workers-Virginia.
MMWR 1986;35:467-9.
Simmons JD, Hull P, Rogers E, Hart B.
Tuberculosis control migrant study of 1988.
North Carolina Medical Journal 1989;50:309-10.
Hibbs J., Xeager S, Cochran J.
Tuberculosis among migrant farm workers.
JAMA 1989;262:1775.
American Thoracic Society/CDC.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1986;134:355-63.
Cohn DL, Catlin BJ, Peterson KL, Judson, FN, Sbarbaro JA.
A 62- dose, 6-month therapy for pulmonary and extrapulmonary tuberculosis.
A twice-weekly, directly observed, and cost-effective regimen.
Ann Int Med 1990;112:407.
Hong Kong Chest Service/British Medical Research Council.
Five- year follow-up of a controlled trail of five 6-month regimens of chemotherapy for pulmonary tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1987;136:1339.
Tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection: Recommendations of the advisory council for the elimination of tuberculosis.
MMWR 1989;38:17:236-8,243-50.
Efficacy of various duration of isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: five years of follow-up in IUAT trials.
Bull WHO 1982;60:(4):555-64.
The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis recognizes that a variety of terms are used and preferred by different groups to describe race and ethnicity.
Racial and ethnic terms used throughout this document reflect the way data are collected and reported by official health agencies.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports April 17, 1992 / 41(RR-5);001 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis Among Homeless Persons Recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis SUGGESTED CITATION: Centers for Disease Control.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in U.S.
communities with at-risk minority populations: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and Prevention and control of tuberculosis among homeless persons: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1992;41(RR-5):(inclusive page numbers).
CIO RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS PUBLICATION: National Center for Prevention Services Summary Because tuberculosis (TB) is a major problem among homeless persons, the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis has developed recommendations to assist health-care providers, health departments, shelter operators and workers, social service agencies, and homeless persons prevent and control TB in this population.
TB should be suspected in any homeless person with a fever and a productive cough of more than 1-3 weeks' duration, and appropriate diagnostic studies should be undertaken.
Confirmed or suspected TB in a homeless person should be immediately reported to the health department so that a treatment plan can be decided upon and potentially exposed persons located and examined.
Patients with TB should be counseled and voluntarily tested for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection because TB treatment recommendations are different for HIV-seropositive and HIV-seronegative persons (1).
TB therapy should be directly observed whenever possible.
This may require the establishment of special shelters or other long-term-care arrangements for homeless persons with TB.
For each person with an infectious case, an investigation should be conducted to identify exposed persons, and those found to be infected should be considered for preventive therapy.
Shelter staff should receive a tuberculin skin test when they start work and every 6-12 months thereafter.
Those with positive skin test results should be considered for preventive therapy according to current guidelines.
Shelters for the homeless should be adequately ventilated.
The installation of ultraviolet lamps also may be useful to further reduce the risk of TB transmission.
INTRODUCTION Since the early 1900s (2), tuberculosis (TB) has been recognized as an important health problem among homeless persons and among residents of inexpensive lodging houses, night shelters, single-room occupancy hotels, and common hostels.
Subsequent reports have continued to call attention to this problem, especially in the United Kingdom (3-11).
With the increase in homelessness in the United States during the 1980s, TB among homeless persons became a subject of heightened interest and concern (12-24).
There is no universally agreed-upon definition of homelessness; in general, however, the homeless can be defined as persons who do not have customary and regular access to a conventional dwelling or residence (25).
The exact number of homeless persons at any given time is not known, and reported estimates have varied widely.
According to the Urban Institute, there may have been more than 1 million persons in the United States who were homeless at some time during 1987 (26).
From a national perspective, the overall incidence of active TB and the prevalence of latent tuberculous infection among the homeless are unknown.
Based on screening at selected clinics and shelters, the prevalence of clinically active disease ranges from 1.6% to 6.8% and the prevalence of latent TB infection ranges from 18% to 51% (12,13,15-17).
Clinical data from the National Health Care for the Homeless project indicated a point prevalence of active TB of 968/100,000 homeless adults (27).
However, because of the selective nature of these screening activities, it is not appropriate to extrapolate these reported prevalence rates nationwide or to ``special populations,'' such as single-parent families or runaway children (28).
Although shelters and other inexpensive housing for the homeless are vital to the survival of these persons, there is substantial potential for TB transmission in such facilities (18), especially in the winter when shelters are likely to be more crowded and ventilation from the outside may be diminished.
The recommendations in this document are intended for the entire medical community and the public, but are particularly targeted to health department TB-control programs and to those who provide health care and other services to homeless persons.
Health departments and shelter operators are encouraged to implement these recommendations whenever applicable.
ASSESSMENT OF THE MAGNITUDE OF THE PROBLEM Communities should assess the nature and magnitude of the TB problem in their area, specifically, the incidence and prevalence of TB among persons who are homeless.
All patients with TB should be specifically asked whether they are homeless or live at a single-room occupancy hotel, shelter, or lodging house since they may not volunteer such information.
Health departments should maintain, and regularly update, listings of single-room occupancy hotels and homeless shelters so that patients' addresses can be checked against these listings.
Shelters should be encouraged to maintain lists of names of persons staying there.
This will facilitate health department searches for patients in need of diagnostic or therapeutic services.
PRIORITIES FOR TB SERVICES Priorities for TB prevention and control activities among homeless persons have been established on the basis of their clinical and public health importance and their cost-effectiveness (see box).
Priorities for Tuberculosis Prevention and Control Activities Among Homeless Persons The highest priority should be given to a) detection, evaluation, and reporting of homeless persons who have current symptoms of active TB and b) completion of an appropriate course of treatment by those diagnosed with active TB.
The second priority should be screening and preventive therapy for homeless persons who have, or are suspected of having, human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV) infection.
The third priority should be the examination and appropriate treatment of persons with recent TB that has been inadequately treated.
The fourth priority should be screening and appropriate treatment of persons exposed to an infectious (sputum-positive) case of TB.
Because contacts are difficult to define in a shelter population, it is usually necessary to screen all residents of a shelter when an infectious case is identified.
The fifth priority should be screening and preventive therapy for homeless persons with known medical conditions that increase the risk of TB, e.g., diabetes mellitus (29).
CASE FINDING Educational materials on TB should be developed for shelter clients, shelter employees, and volunteers.
This material should address the mode of spread, the common signs and symptoms, and methods for treatment and prevention.
Information on local resources for TB care should be made available to shelter staff and guests.
TB case finding should be part of the regular health care provided to homeless persons.
Shelter staff and others providing services can assist in case finding by identifying persons with a persistent cough and ensuring that suspected cases are quickly evaluated by a health-care provider.
If this evaluation cannot be done at the shelter, immediate transportation to a health-care facility should be provided.
If the clinical evaluation of a symptomatic person is consistent with TB, appropriate diagnostic tests (e.g., sputum smears and cultures and chest radiographs) should be done as quickly as possible.
A homeless patient will usually need to be hospitalized at least until the diagnostic evaluation is complete and effective therapy instituted.
Routine tuberculin skin test screening of asymptomatic homeless persons for TB is not an efficient way to find new cases.
Chest radiographic screening of homeless persons may be useful during outbreak investigations.
CASE REPORTING The diagnosis of TB in a homeless patient may occur during diagnosis and treatment of an unrelated problem or during incarceration in a jail or prison.
When a homeless person is suspected of or diagnosed as having TB, the health department should be notified promptly so that appropriate follow-up can be arranged.
Delay or failure to notify the health department of a case of confirmed or suspected TB may result in the patient's being lost to follow-up, a failure to initiate appropriate treatment, and continuing transmission of tuberculosis in the community.
CASE MANAGEMENT Homeless patients with newly diagnosed infectious TB should be appropriately housed to allow initial therapy to be fully supervised and to preclude continuing transmission of TB in the community.
Ideally, homeless persons with active TB should be housed in a special shelter, halfway house, or other long-term treatment facility until therapy is complete or more permanent housing is identified.
It is also important that ancillary services, such as substance abuse treatment and evaluation and treatment of HIV disease, be offered in these facilities.
A health department staff member should visit a homeless person with suspected or confirmed TB, in the hospital or elsewhere, as soon as possible after the diagnosis is suspected or made.
The health department worker should make an assessment of the likelihood of adherence to therapy, if treatment is to be given on an outpatient basis.
During the initial visit, the treatment plan should be discussed and the patient's cooperation elicited.
Arrangements for the patient's first visit to the clinic or other place of intended outpatient care should be made before the patient is discharged from the hospital.
Details about personal activities, friends, and favorite gathering places, which may assist in locating the patient in the field, should be included in the chart.
A physical description of the patient should also be included in the chart to assist field workers in locating the person.
It is essential that rapport between the patient and the health department staff be established and maintained.
The homeless person with TB may not view TB as the highest priority concern.
Other concerns -- e.g., shelter, food, and safety -- are likely to be of greater priority.
Thus, the involvement of social workers on the treatment team to assist in solving these other problems is important for achieving successful treatment of TB.
Treatment must be carefully monitored.
Failure of patients to take TB medications as prescribed can result in relapses, drug resistance, further transmission of TB, and death.
For most patients, it is desirable that a health-care worker or other responsible adult directly observe ingestion of medication.
This allows careful monitoring for adherence to therapy and drug side effects.
In addition, carrying medications may be dangerous for homeless persons; if others believe the medications are addictive or valuable, the homeless person may be robbed or assaulted.
Whenever possible, TB clinics should be located close to shelters or other places (e.g., soup kitchens) where homeless persons receive services.
If this is not possible, transportation to the clinics should be provided.
The clinic schedule should include hours that facilitate patient attendance.
Incentives and enablers to encourage adherence should be used (20-22,30).
These might include items such as food or food vouchers, cash, special lodging, transportation vouchers or tokens, articles of clothing, priority in food lines, and assistance in filing for benefits.
In many communities, successful programs represent a cooperative community activity in which local merchants or American Lung Association affiliates provide the incentives.
Treatment outcomes are likely to be optimal if homeless patients have a reliable source of food and shelter throughout the course of therapy.
Some communities have successfully used halfway houses and special shelters for this purpose.
In areas lacking these alternatives, a longer period of hospitalization in an acute-care facility may be necessary.
Long-term institutionalization may be essential for the management of mentally ill or seriously uncooperative patients.
If, despite the efforts of health-care providers, any infectious patient (regardless of residential status) refuses treatment, temporary enforced isolation should be instituted in accordance with state and local public health laws and regulations.
This option should be used when necessary after due legal process.
Medicaid reimbursement for these services should be available in all states.
TREATMENT A responsible person (e.g., physician, nurse, outreach worker) should observe the patient ingest medications to prevent treatment failure, the emergence of drug-resistant organisms, and continued transmission of infection (31).
Provided there is adequate medical supervision, treatment can be given and observed by designated persons at the shelter or other location.
All TB treatments of homeless persons should be free of charge to the patient.
Treatment should stress the use of intensive multidrug, bactericidal regimens for all eligible patients (29).
Outpatient treatment should be a regimen that includes isoniazid and rifampin in addition to pyrazinamide and ethambutol for the first 2 months of therapy.
Drug susceptibility tests should be initially obtained on positive cultures from all patients.
If the organisms are susceptible to both isoniazid and rifampin, ethambutol can be discontinued and the second phase of therapy completed with an additional 4 months (if patient is HIV negative) or 7 months (if patient is HIV positive) of treatment with isoniazid and rifampin.
Treatment can be given daily for the first 2 weeks to 2 months and either daily or twice weekly thereafter, or it can be given three times weekly from the beginning (32).
Baseline laboratory tests should be done to detect conditions contraindicating certain drugs and to better assess any subsequent adverse drug reactions (29).
For patients with active pulmonary TB, sputum smears and cultures should be obtained at 2- to 4-week intervals until cultures become negative.
Patients should be monitored for possible adverse drug effects by asking them about signs and symptoms.
Appropriate laboratory studies should be obtained when indicated.
Hospitalized patients who are initially found to have positive sputum smears or cultures can return to the shelter when there is bacteriologic and clinical evidence of a response to therapy, i.e., three consecutive daily negative sputum smears and asymptomatic status.
PREVENTION Early case finding and effective treatment of persons with active TB are the most important measures for preventing spread of TB in the community.
A thorough contact investigation should be done around every case (33).
Although such investigations are difficult in shelters because of the transient nature of the population, they should always be attempted.
Contact investigations are usually based upon screening with the tuberculin skin test, followed by chest radiographs for those with skin test reactions greater than or equal to 5 mm.
Because of the high prevalence of TB among some homeless populations and because of the possibility of false-negative tuberculin skin test reactions due to disease or other factors, it may be useful to screen homeless populations with chest radiographs during an outbreak investigation.
Several factors in the shelter environment influence the likelihood of TB transmission.
The absolute number and population density of persons sharing the same breathing space is an important transmission factor in shelters.
If all other factors are constant, the size of the shelter population is directly proportional to the likelihood that someone with infectious TB will be present and that someone else will become infected (34).
Conversely, the smaller and less crowded the shelter, the lower the risk.
The probability of transmission is affected by building ventilation.
Ventilation should be at or above 25 cubic feet of outside air per minute per person.
Recirculated air may contribute to transmission within a shelter.
During periods of peak occupancy, it may be difficult to provide ventilation at adequate levels.
Air quality consultants can determine the adequacy of ventilation and recommend improvements where necessary.
Because even optimal ventilation does not preclude TB transmission, supplemental upper room germicidal ultraviolet (UV) air disinfection may be useful to further reduce the chance of transmission (35).
UV lamps may be useful when ongoing transmission of infection is demonstrated by the continuing occurrence of cases or skin test conversions.
For safety and efficacy reasons, UV fixtures should be planned, installed, and monitored after installation by an experienced consultant.
To avoid acute eye and skin injury, shelter staff and workers should be advised not to look at the tubes in UV fixtures, and exposure at eye level must be no greater than 0.2 microwatts per square centimeter over 8 hours.
Nonreflective paint should be used in rooms where UV lamps are located.
Tuberculin skin test screening and isoniazid preventive therapy programs among homeless persons have been generally unproductive because of poor patient adherence to follow-up visits and treatment regimens (36).
Screening should be undertaken only if there is a reasonable possibility that most infected persons identified will complete preventive treatment.
Priorities for preventive therapy among TB-infected persons have been established (see box) (29).
Priorities for Preventive Therapy Among TB-infected Persons Persons with HIV infection Recent contacts of persons with infectious TB Persons with recent skin test conversions Persons with recent TB disease who have been inadequately treated 5.
Persons with negative sputum cultures and stable fibrotic lesions on chest radiographs consistent with inactive TB 6.
Persons with medical conditions that increase the risk of TB (29) Incentives may also be used to improve adherence to preventive treatment.
Twice-weekly directly observed isoniazid preventive therapy, given in a dose of 15 mg/kg, should be considered if the person cannot or will not comply with daily self-administered therapy.
Although the efficacy of this regimen has not been proven in preventive therapy trials, extrapolation from clinical therapy trials suggests it would be effective (37).
Staff and regular volunteers in shelters for the homeless should receive a Mantoux tuberculin skin test when they start work and every 6 to 12 months thereafter.
The two-step method of testing is generally recommended (38).
Persons with positive reactions should be evaluated and considered for preventive therapy according to current American Thoracic Society / CDC guidelines (29).
The results of staff and volunteer skin tests should be maintained in a central confidential file.
Clinical data on homeless clients (guests) should be maintained and shared between shelters.
HIV INFECTION AND TB HIV infection is a major risk factor for the development of TB (39).
An association between TB, HIV infection, and homelessness has been documented (21,22,24).
Persons with TB and HIV infection appear to respond to standard anti-TB drugs (40-42), but data on clinical and bacteriologic response among these patients are limited.
When HIV infection is known or suspected, the recommended initial treatment regimen is the same as for non-HIV-infected persons.
Patients treated with rifampin who are on methadone should have the methadone dosage increased to avoid withdrawal symptoms resulting from the interaction between the two drugs (43).
If the patient has drug-susceptible organisms, the continuation phase need include only isoniazid and rifampin.
If resistance to any of the drugs in the regimen is found, the treatment regimen should be appropriately revised in consultation with a specialist.
Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 9 months and for at least 6 months beyond documented culture conversion as evidenced by three negative cultures.
If either isoniazid or rifampin is not or cannot be included in the regimen, therapy should continue at least 18 months and for at least 12 months after culture conversion.
All patients diagnosed with TB should be offered counseling and HIV-antibody testing.
Previously published guidelines for counseling and testing and notification of sex partners and those who share needles with HIV-infected persons should be followed (44).
Particular emphasis should be placed on offering counseling and HIV-antibody testing to persons with extrapulmonary TB and persons with TB in the age groups in which most HIV infections occur (i.e., those ages 25-44 years).
Because homelessness may be a sequela of injecting drug use or HIV disease, information on behaviors * associated with an increased risk or prevalence of HIV infection should be routinely sought from homeless persons.
If HIV infection is considered a possibility, counseling and HIV-antibody testing should be strongly encouraged.
Because HIV infection is one of the strongest known risk factors for the progression of latent tuberculous infection to TB (39), the presence of HIV infection in a person with a positive tuberculin skin test (i.e., greater than or equal to 5 mm induration) is an indication for preventive therapy regardless of that person's age.
The recommended therapy is isoniazid, 300 mg daily or 15 mg/kg twice weekly for 12 months.
Preventive therapy should be started only after excluding active pulmonary or extrapulmonary TB.
HIV-infected persons, with or without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or other HIV-related disease, should be given a Mantoux skin test consisting of 5 tuberculin units of purified protein derivative.
Although false-negative results may result in these persons because of HIV-induced immunosuppression, positive tuberculin reactions are clinically meaningful.
Persons with clinical AIDS or other HIV-related disease should receive a chest radiograph and be examined for evidence of extrapulmonary TB, regardless of the skin test reaction.
If abnormalities are noted, additional diagnostic studies for TB should be undertaken.
ROLE OF THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT Health departments must ensure the provision of essential TB supplies and services for homeless persons regardless of their ability to pay.
Care should be readily accessible to homeless persons; this often means provision of services at a shelter.
Whenever possible, outreach services should be provided by trained outreach workers with the same cultural, ethnic, and linguistic background as the homeless population being served.
Health departments should also ensure that expert TB medical consultation is available to the clinicians and nurses who provide health-care services to homeless persons.
State and local health departments should provide TB training to those who provide health-care services to homeless persons.
(CDC has made training materials available to state health departments to assist in this training.) There is a national network of primary health-care programs for the homeless as a result of the McKinney Homeless Assistance Act.
The 109 community programs supported by the Bureau of Health Care Delivery and Assistance of the Health Resources and Services Administration are appropriate partners for local health agencies in controlling TB among the homeless.
ROLE OF THE U.S.
PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE The U.S.
Public Health Service (PHS) should promote collaboration between health departments and those who provide health care to the homeless so that they can plan and implement TB prevention and control activities.
The PHS should require documentation of such collaboration as part of applications from states and cities for federally funded grants and cooperative agreements.
In addition, as part of routine site visits, PHS staff should review state and local TB activities and make recommendations for more effective collaborative programs.
CONCLUSIONS Homeless persons suffer disproportionately from a variety of health problems, including TB.
Detecting, treating, and preventing TB in this special population benefit not only persons who are homeless, but society at large.
The goal of prevention and control of TB among the homeless is difficult and challenging, but it can be achieved.
References CDC.
Tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
MMWR 1989;38:236-238, 243-250.
Tuberculosis as a cause and result of poverty.
JAMA 1914;63(20):1720-5.
Tuberculosis among the residents of hostels and lodging houses in London.
Lancet 1957;1:1136-8.
Tuberculosis in a common lodging-house.
Br J Prev Soc Med 1961;15:89-92.
Hurford JV.
The ``homeless'' male with pulmonary tuberculosis.
Tubercle 1962;43:192-5.
Tuberculosis in vagrants and inmates of lodging houses.
Med Officer 1965(February);103-4.
Scott R, Gaskell PG, Morrell DC.
Patients who reside in common lodging-houses.
Br Med J 1966;2:1561-4.
Shanks NJ, Carroll KB.
Improving the identification rate of pulmonary tuberculosis among inmates of common lodging houses.
J Epidemiol Community Health 1982;36:130-2.
Shanks NJ, Carroll KB.
Persistent tuberculosis disease among inmates of common lodging houses.
J Epidemiol Community Health 1984;38:66-7.
Pulmonary tuberculosis in residents of lodging houses, night shelters and common hostels in Glasgow: a 5-year prospective survey.
Br J Dis Chest 1985;79:60-6.
Capewell S, France AJ, Anderson M, Leitch AG.
The diagnosis and management of tuberculosis in common hostel dwellers.
Tubercle 1986;67:125-31.
Sherman MN, Brickner PW, Schwartz MS, et al.
Tuberculosis in single-room-occupancy hotel residents: a persisting focus of disease.
NY Med Quart 1980;2:39-41.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis among the homeless -- Boston.
MMWR 1985;34:429-31.
O'Donohue WJ, Bedi S, Bittner MJ, Prehein LC.
Short-course chemotherapy for pulmonary infection due to Mycobacterium bovis.
Arch Intern Med 1985;145:703-5.
Barry MA, Wall C, Shirley L, et al.
Tuberculosis screening in Boston's homeless shelters.
Public Health Rep 1986;101(5):487-98.
Management of tuberculosis in urban homeless indigents.
Public Health Rep 1986;101(5):481-5.
McAdam J, Brickner PW, Glicksman R, Edwards D, Fallon B, Yanowitch P.
Tuberculosis in the SRO/homeless population.
In: Brickner PW, Scharer LK, Conanan B, Elvy A, Savarese M, eds.
Health care of homeless people.
New York: Springer, 1985:155-75.
Nardell E, McInnis B, Thomas B, Weidhaas S.
Exogenous reinfection with tuberculosis in a shelter for the homeless.
N Engl J Med 1986;315:1570-5.
McAdam JM, Brickner PW, Scharer LL, et al.
Tuberculosis in the homeless: a national perspective.
In: Brickner PW, Scharer LK, Conanan BA, Savarese M, Scanlan BC, eds.
Under the safety net.
New York: WW Norton & Company, 1990:234-49.
Nolan CM, Elarth AM, Barr H, Saeed AM, Risser DR.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a shelter for homeless men.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;143:257-61.
McAdam JM, Brickner PW, Scharer LL, et al.
The spectrum of tuberculosis in a New York City men's shelter clinic (1982-1988).
Chest 1990;97:798-805.
Torres RA, Mani S, Altholz J, Brickner PW.
Human immunodeficiency virus infection among homeless men in a New York City shelter: association with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
Arch Intern Med 1990;150:2030-6.
Pablos-Mendez A, Raviglione MC, Battan R, Ramos-Zuniga R.
Drug resistant tuberculosis among the homeless in New York City.
New York State J Med 1990;90:351-5.
Brudney K, Dobkin J.
Resurgent tuberculosis in New York City: human immunodeficiency virus, homelessness, and the decline of tuberculosis control programs.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;144:745-9.
Rossi PH, Wright JD, Fisher GA, Willis G.
The urban homeless: estimating composition and size.
Science 1987;235:1336-41.
Burt MR, Cohen BE.
America's homeless: numbers, characteristics, and programs that serve them.
In: Urban Institute Report 89-3.
Washington, DC: The Urban Institute Press, 1989.
Poor people, poor health: the health status of the homeless.
J Soc Issues 1990;46(4):49-64.
Helping and hating the homeless.
The struggle at the margins of America.
Harper's Magazine 1987(January):39-49.
American Thoracic Society / CDC.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
Am Rev Respir Dis (in preparation).
Snider DE, Anders HM, Pozsik CJ.
Incentives to take up health services.
Lancet 1986;2:812.
Committee on Non-Drug Issues in Chemotherapy, American College of Chest Physicians.
Non-drug issues related to the treatment of tuberculosis.
Chest 1985(suppl);87(2):125S-7S.
Hong Kong Chest Service, British Medical Research Council.
Controlled trial of 4 three-times-weekly regimens and a daily regimen all given for 6 months for pulmonary tuberculosis -- second report: the results up to 24 months.
Tubercle 1982;63:89-98.
American Thoracic Society/CDC.
Control of tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1983;128:336-42.
Nardell EA.
Nosocomial tuberculosis in the AIDS era: strategies for interrupting transmission in developed countries.
Bull Int Union Tuberc Lung Dis 1991;66:107-11.
Riley RL, Nardell EA.
Clearing the air: the theory and application of UV air disinfection.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;139:1286-94.
Tuberculosis among residents of shelters for the homeless -- Ohio, 1990.
MMWR 1991;40:869-71, 877.
Committee on Isoniazid Preventive Treatment, American College of Chest Physicians.
Preventive treatment of tuberculosis.
Chest 1985(suppl);87(2):128S-32S.
American Thoracic Society / CDC.
Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1990;142:725-35.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545-50.
Sunderman G, McDonald RJ, Maniatis T, Oleske J, Kapila R, Reichman LB.
Tuberculosis as a manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
JAMA 1986;256:362-6.
Pitchenik AE, Cole C, Russell BW, Fischl MA, Spira TJ, Snider DE Jr.
Tuberculosis, atypical mycobacteriosis, and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome among Haitian and non-Haitian patients in South Florida.
Ann Intern Med 1985;101:641-5.
Louie E, Rice LB, Holzman RS.
Tuberculosis in non-Haitian patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Chest 1986;90:542-5.
Kreek MJ, Garfield JW, Gutjahr CL, Giusti LM.
Rifampin-induced methadone withdrawal.
N Engl J Med 1976;294:1104-6.
Public Health Service guidelines for counseling and antibody testing to prevent HIV infection and AIDS.
MMWR 1987;36:509-15.
The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis recognizes that a variety of terms are used and preferred by different groups to describe race and ethnicity.
Racial and ethnic terms used throughout the document reflect the way data are collected and reported by official health agencies.
Based on seroprevalence studies, behaviors that place a person at risk for HIV infection include injecting drug use and male homosexual contact.
Other factors that increase the risk for HIV infection among adults include having received blood or clotting factor concentrate between 1978 and 1985 and having had sexual relations at any time since 1978 with a) a person known to be infected with HIV or to have AIDS, b) a man who has had sexual contact with another man, c) prostitutes, d) injecting drug users, or e) persons born in countries where most transmission of HIV is thought to occur through heterosexual sexual contact.
Risk factors for HIV infection among infants and children include a) parents, especially the mother, with HIV infection or any of the adult risk factors, and b) receipt of blood or clotting factor concentrates between 1978 and 1985.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports June 19, 1992 / 41(RR-11);59-71 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Management of Persons Exposed to Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis This report was prepared by the following CDC staff: Margarita E.
Villarino, M.D., M.P.H.
Dooley, Jr., M.D.
Lawrence J.
Geiter, M.P.H.
Castro, M.D.
Snider, Jr., M.D., M.P.H.
Summary Recent outbreaks of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) have posed challenges for the management of exposed persons.
INTRODUCTION During 1990 and 1991, four outbreaks of multidrug-resistant tuber- culosis (MDR-TB), involving nearly 200 cases, were investigated by CDC and local health departments in Florida and New York City (1,2).
These outbreaks were characterized by transmission of Mycobacterium tubercu- losis to patients and to health-care workers (HCWs) in hospitals and outpatient clinics; most of the exposed persons who developed active MDR-TB were known to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Among patients with active MDR-TB, the case-fatality rate was extraordinarily high -- 72% to 89%.
Of eight HCWs from these hospitals who developed active MDR-TB, four with known HIV infection died.
Since August 1991, CDC and state and local health departments in New York have also investigated MDR-TB outbreaks involving two additional hospitals and the state correctional system.
In these outbreaks, several inmates and one prison guard have died of MDR-TB (CDC: unpublished data).
Approximately 50 HCWs in one of these hospitals had tuberculin skin-test conversions after exposure to hospitalized patients with MDR-TB.
Virtually all M.
tuberculosis isolates from the MDR-TB outbreak cases were resistant to both isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF); some were resistant to other drugs, including ethambutol (EMB), strepto- mycin (SM), ethionamide, kanamycin (KM), and rifabutin.
Data for susceptibility to pyrazinamide (PZA) are incomplete, but for those isolates in which PZA testing has been completed, most were susceptible to this drug.
PATHOGENESIS AND PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS Persons with recently acquired M.
tuberculosis infection are at relatively high risk of developing active TB; in general, 5%-10% of persons develop active disease within 2 years of the primary infection (3-5).
Coinfection with HIV increases this risk considerably; seven (41%) of 18 HIV-infected patients identified in a nosocomial TB outbreak investigation in Italy developed active disease within 60 days of their exposure to M.
tuberculosis, and 11 (38%) of 29 persons in a residential facility for HIV-infected persons in San Francisco developed active disease within 4 months of exposure (6-8).
To reduce the risk of active TB in persons newly infected with M.
tuberculosis, the American Thoracic Society/CDC and the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis recommend INH preventive therapy (9-10).
For HIV-infected persons, the higher disease attack rate and the shorter incubation period associated with newly acquired tuberculous infection and the high mortality rate associated with TB disease reinforce the rationale for the use of preventive therapy.
In HIV-infected persons who become newly infected with M.
tuberculosis, the use of drug therapy might be considered treatment of incubating or subclinical disease.
When the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis is susceptible to INH and patients adhere to the drug regimen, INH is highly effective for preventing active TB.
In a wide variety of controlled studies, persons who were prescribed 12 months of INH preventive therapy had a 30%-93% reduction in the rate of active disease; the variation in effec- tiveness was almost entirely due to variation in patient adherence to the prescribed regimen (11,12).
In a more recent study, nursing-home residents in Arkansas who received 12 months of INH preventive therapy after a documented tuberculin skin-test conversion had a 98% reduction in the rate of active disease, compared with those who had a skin-test conversion but did not take preventive treatment (3).
Most studies of preventive therapy have been conducted among immunocompetent subjects.
However, early results of a recent study in Zambia indicated the efficacy of 6 months of INH preventive therapy in tuberculin-positive persons coinfected with HIV.
This study showed a substantial reduction (87%) in the rate of active disease in the treated group when compared with a control group that received placebo (13).
RIF is recommended as an alternative to INH when the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis is resistant to INH but susceptible to RIF (9).
When the infecting strain is multidrug resistant (i.e., resistant to both INH and RIF), treatment options are problematic because no studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of preventive therapy for persons infected with such strains of M.
tuberculosis.
IDENTIFICATION AND EVALUATION OF PERSONS EXPOSED TO TUBERCULOSIS Several factors should be considered in the management of persons exposed to TB (i.e., contacts): a) the likelihood that the contact is newly infected with M.
tuberculosis; b) the likelihood that the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis is multidrug resistant; and c) the estimated likelihood that the contact, if infected, will develop active TB.
Estimating the Likelihood of New Infection with M.
tuberculosis and Preventive Therapy Decision-making Because contacts of persons with infectious TB are at high risk for tuberculous infection, contacts should be rapidly identified and evaluated when a case of infectious TB (i.e., TB involving the respiratory tract or oral cavity) is identified (Figure_1) (14).
These persons need no further evaluation for the current TB exposure unless they have symptoms suggestive of active TB; however, they should be evaluated for preventive therapy on the basis of the prior positive tuberculin skin-test result (10).
Contacts who are not known or likely to be immunosuppressed and who have no history of a positive tuberculin skin-test reaction should receive a tuberculin skin test and, if indicated, chest radiograph and sputum examination.
Those who have tuberculin skin-test reactions with greater than or equal to 5 mm induration should be considered probably newly infected with M.
tuberculosis and should be evaluated for preventive therapy, after active TB is excluded (Figure_1) (15).
Members of the immediate family, close social contacts, or others (e.g., hospital roommates, some health-care providers) who shared the same indoor environment with an infectious TB patient for substantial periods are considered high-risk contacts.
These initially tuberculin-negative, high- risk contacts should be considered possibly newly infected.
They should receive a chest radiograph and be considered for preventive therapy until follow-up testing is complete if a) there is evidence of TB contagion among other contacts with comparable exposure (i.e., tuberculin positivity or active TB), or b) the contact is a child, HIV infected, or immunosuppressed for other reasons.
Preventive therapy can be discontinued if follow-up tuberculin skin-test results are negative.
Contacts who are known or likely to be HIV infected, or markedly immunosuppressed for other reasons, should be evaluated for anergy at the time of tuberculin skin testing (Figure_1) (16).
Immunosup- pressed persons who have a prior positive tuberculin skin test may be at risk for reinfection with M.
tuberculosis; these persons should also be evaluated with a tuberculin skin test and a test for anergy.
Those who are not anergic can be further evaluated in the same way as contacts who are not known or likely to be immunosuppressed.
Those who are anergic should be considered probably newly infected if they are high-risk contacts or if there is evidence of TB contagion among other contacts with comparable exposure.
(The latter suggests that the source case was an efficient transmitter.) These persons should be evaluated for preventive therapy, after active TB is excluded.
In all situations, regardless of tuberculin skin-test results, a diagnostic evaluation should be performed if symptoms suggestive of active TB are present.
Estimating the Likelihood of Infection with Multidrug-Resistant M.
tuberculosis Among Contacts Thought to Be Newly Infected Contacts who are considered likely to be newly infected and who have had exposure to patients with infectious MDR-TB should be evaluated to assess the likelihood of infection with a multidrug- resistant strain of M.
tuberculosis.
Several factors should be considered in this assessment: a) the infectiousness of the possible source MDR-TB case, b) the closeness and intensity of the MDR-TB exposure, and c) the contact's likelihood of exposure to persons with drug-susceptible TB (Table_1).
Infectiousness of the source case.
TB patients who cough and have acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear-positive sputum are substantially more infectious than those who do not cough and have AFB smear-negative sputum.
Evidence of tuberculin skin-test conversions among contacts of the TB case is another measure of infectivity.
Closeness and intensity of the MDR-TB exposure.
Any person who shared the air space with an MDR-TB patient for a relatively prolonged time (e.g., household member, hospital roommate) is at higher risk for infection than those with a brief exposure to an MDR-TB patient, such as a one-time hospital visitor.
Exposure of any length in a small, enclosed, poorly ventilated area is more likely to result in trans- mission than exposure in a large, well-ventilated space.
Exposure during cough-inducing procedures (e.g., bronchoscopy, endotracheal intubation, sputum induction, administration of aerosol therapy), which may greatly enhance TB transmission, is also more likely to result in infection.
Contact history.
Persons exposed to several sources of M.
tubercu- losis, including infectious TB patients with drug-susceptible M.
tuberculosis, are less likely to have been infected with a multidrug- resistant strain than are those whose only known exposure to TB was to an infectious MDR-TB case.
Estimating the Likelihood that Infected Persons Will Develop Active Tuberculosis The most potent factor that increases the probability that a person infected with M.
tuberculosis will develop active TB is immunodeficiency, such as that caused by coinfection with HIV (Table_2) (17,18); thus, health-care providers should routinely offer counseling and voluntary HIV antibody testing to all patients known or likely to be infected with M.
tuberculosis.
Other immunocom- promising conditions, including treatment with immunosuppressive medications, renal failure, and diabetes mellitus, also increase the risk for progression to active disease, but to a considerably lesser extent than HIV infection (9,18).
Recentness of infection also contributes to the risk of developing active TB.
In immunocompetent persons, the risk of developing active TB is highest within the first 2 years after infection, after which the risk declines markedly (18).
This is probably different for HIV- infected persons, who have a progressive decline in cell-mediated immunity and may remain at high risk for an indefinite period or may even have an increasing risk as the immunosuppression progresses.
Finally, the age of the contact needs to be considered.
Children ages less than or equal to 5 years and persons greater than or equal to 60 years both have high TB disease attack rates and shorter incubation periods (3,19).
PREVENTIVE THERAPY CONSIDERATIONS FOR PERSONS LIKELY TO BE INFECTED WITH A MULTIDRUG-RESISTANT STRAIN OF MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS Before any preventive therapy regimen is initiated, the diagnosis of clinically active TB must be excluded (14,20).
Patients on preventive therapy should be monitored carefully for adverse reactions to the medications, evidence of active TB, and adherence to therapy.
Patients on preventive therapy should be thoroughly educated about symptoms of TB and the need for immediate medical evaluation if symptoms do occur.
As much as possible, alternative multidrug preventive therapy regimens should be selected, administered, and evaluated in a consistent and systematic way.
All patients receiving one of these regimens should be on directly observed therapy.
Clinicians who are not familiar with the management of patients with MDR-TB or those infected with multidrug-resistant organisms should seek expert consultation.
Considerations in Evaluating M.
tuberculosis Isolates for Drug Susceptibility Drug susceptibility test results of the M.
tuberculosis isolate of the presumed source case should be considered in the selection of the drugs to be included in the preventive therapy regimen.
The proportion method is commonly used for determining drug susceptibility of M.
tuberculosis isolates (21).
The results of this method of testing are reported to the clinician as the percentage of the total bacterial population resistant to a given drug, which is defined by the amount of growth on a drug-containing medium as compared with growth on a drug-free control medium.
When greater than or equal to 1% of the bacillary population becomes resistant to the critical concentration of a drug, the M.
tuberculosis isolate is considered resistant to that drug.
The critical concentration of a drug is the concentration that inhibits the growth of most cells in wild strains of M.
tuberculosis.
One critical concentration is used for the susceptibility testing of most drugs; INH susceptibility testing is usually done by using two different drug concentrations (0.2 ug/mL and 1.0 ug/mL).
Drug susceptibility testing of M.
tuberculosis isolates is also possible through the use of radiometric techniques such as the BACTEC(R) system, Results of this method identify whether M.
tubercu- losis isolates are susceptible or resistant to the drugs tested.
This method can reduce the time of identifying drug-resistant microor- ganisms from the 7 weeks needed for testing in solid media (proportion method) to 3 weeks.
However, only five of the antituberculosis drugs (INH, RIF, PZA, EMB, and SM) are commercially available at this time for use in the BACTEC(R) system.
Additional antibiotics may be tested with BACTEC(R) but require that dilutions be prepared by the laboratory.
General Approach to Selecting Drug Regimens for Preventive Therapy Candidates Newly infected contacts who are thought to have a low to low- intermediate likelihood of infection with multidrug-resistant M.
tuberculosis (Table_1) should be managed according to standard recommendations for infected contacts of non-MDR-TB patients (Figure_2) (10).
Infected contacts who are thought to have an intermediate to high likelihood of being infected with a multidrug- resistant strain of M.
tuberculosis need to be further categorized according to their risk of developing active TB.
Those at high risk for disease include persons who are HIV infected, persons with risk factors for HIV infection who have unknown HIV status, and persons with other conditions known to cause severe immunosuppression.
Preventive therapy regimens with at least two antituberculosis drugs should be strongly considered for persons likely to be infected with multidrug-resistant M.
tuberculosis who have a high risk of developing active disease (Figure_2).
This suggestion is based on consider- ations of the extraordinarily high likelihood of progression to clinically active TB, especially in persons with advanced HIV disease; the severe consequences of clinically active MDR-TB in persons with HIV infection; and the possibility that MDR-TB may be more amenable to cure if treated when the bacterial burden is low rather than when the disease becomes clinically apparent and the bacterial burden is substantially higher.
No clinical data exist on the risks and benefits of regimens that do not include INH or RIF; however, preventive therapy with more than one drug is recommended since efficacy of preventive monotherapy with alternative drugs has not been demon- strated.
For contacts who are not HIV infected, who do not have risk factors for HIV infection with unknown HIV status, who do not have another condition that substantially increases the likelihood of progression to active TB, and who are believed to be infected with a strain of M.
tuberculosis that is 100% resistant (by the proportion method of susceptibility testing) to INH and RIF, other considerations apply (Figure_2).
For these persons, two options are available to the clinician: a) administer no preventive therapy and provide careful clinical follow-up for the appearance of signs and symptoms of TB, or b) consider multidrug preventive therapy with drugs other than INH or RIF.
If the infecting strain of M.
tuberculosis from the source patient is less than 100% resistant to INH, INH should be used for preventive therapy for contacts; alternatively, if the infecting strain is less than 100% resistant to RIF, RIF should be used (9).
Because the efficacy of preventive therapy with drugs other than INH and RIF is unknown, persons placed on alternative multidrug preventive therapy regimens should receive periodic medical and radiographic evaluation for the first 2 years after tuberculous infection (e.g., every 3 months for persons who are HIV positive or who for some other reason have a substantially higher risk of developing active disease; every 6 months for persons who are HIV negative or are not at increased risk).
Sputum examination should be done if TB symptoms are present.
Duration of Preventive Therapy The suggested duration of alternative multidrug preventive therapy ranges from 6 to 12 months of continuous treatment.
Twelve months of therapy are recommended for persons who have HIV infection or other immunosuppressive conditions that markedly increase the risk of developing active disease.
Others should receive at least 6 months of continuous therapy.
Potential Alternative Regimens of Preventive Therapy The alternative regimens of preventive therapy suggested in this document do not represent approval from the Food and Drug Adminis- tration (FDA) or approved labeling for the particular products or indications in question.
In the United States, the only drug approved by the FDA for TB preventive therapy is INH.
Alternative drugs should be used for preventive therapy only when susceptibility to the drugs has been demonstrated by testing the M.
tuberculosis isolate of the presumed source case.
One potential alternative preventive therapy regimen is a combin- ation of PZA and EMB at the recommended dose for the therapy of TB (PZA, daily oral dose 25-30 mg/kg; EMB, daily oral dose 15-25 mg/kg) (9).
Preventive therapy studies in a mouse model suggest that PZA may enhance the efficacy of a bactericidal drug, since a PZA-RIF combin- ation was more effective than RIF alone (22).
Both PZA and EMB have proved to be effective and well tolerated for the treatment of TB.
EMB at the 15-mg/kg dose is considered bacteriostatic, and in vitro studies show that EMB may be bactericidal at the 25-mg/kg dose (23).
If EMB is used at the higher dosage as part of a preventive therapy regimen, the potential for higher rates of toxicity must be recognized and carefully monitored.
Because of the risk of retrobulbar neuritis, EMB should be used with caution in children who are too young for routine testing of visual acuity.
Another possible alternative preventive therapy regimen is PZA plus a fluoroquinolone with reported in vitro activity against M.
tuberculosis.
A recent report indicates that ofloxacin and cipro- floxacin have similar antimycobacterial potencies in vitro (24).
Suggested doses for these agents include 400 mg twice a day of ofloxacin and 750 mg twice a day of ciprofloxacin.
Sparfloxacin, another quinolone that has shown good in vitro activity against M.
tuberculosis, is under investigation (25).
However, to date, sparfloxacin is not licensed in the United States for any indication and would be available only under an investigational new drug (IND) agreement.
For all quinolones, in vivo evidence of efficacy against M.
tuberculosis is very limited.
Short-term administration of quinolones is generally well tolerated, but therapy of 6-12 months' duration has not been studied.
Arthropathy has been noted in experiments with immature animals (26); therefore, quinolones should be used in a preventive therapy regimen for children or pregnant females only if the potential benefits justify the potential side effects.
Aminoglycosides -- such as SM, KM, and amikacin -- or the polypep- tide antibiotic capreomycin might also be considered for inclusion in an alternative preventive therapy regimen.
These drugs are at least partially bactericidal, but they have the disadvantage of requiring injection, creating problems both with logistics and with patient acceptability.
The most common serious adverse effects of these drugs are ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity.
Para-aminosalicylic acid, ethionamide, and cycloserine are the other antituberculosis drugs sometimes used in the United States.
None of these drugs is recommended for use as preventive therapy because of their high frequency of side effects and relatively low efficacy against M.
tuberculosis.
EVALUATION OF PATIENT OUTCOMES The Clinical Research Branch, Division of Tuberculosis Elimin- ation, CDC, is interested in evaluating the efficacy and toxicity associated with multidrug preventive therapy regimens; the outcomes of persons infected with multidrug-resistant strains of M.
tuberculosis who are clinically monitored but who do not take multidrug preventive therapy; and the management and outcomes of patients with MDR-TB.
Clinicians and public health officials who are managing patients in the above categories, and those interested in enrolling eligible patients in a pilot study of TB preventive therapy with fluoro- quinolones, are encouraged to call the Clinical Research Branch at (404) 639-2530.
References CDC.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis to health-care workers and HIV infected patients in an urban hospital -- Florida.
MMWR 1990;39(40):718-22.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among HIV-infected persons -- Florida and New York, 1988-1991.
MMWR 1991;40(34):585-91.
Stead WW, To T, Harrison RW, Abraham JH.
Benefit-risk consider- ations in preventive treatment for tuberculosis in elderly persons.
Ann Intern Med 1987;107:843-5.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis.
In: Broekmans JS, ed.
Selected papers, vol.
The Hague, the Netherlands: Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association, 1991:1-136.
Zeidberg LD, Gass RS, Dillon A, et al.
The Williamson County tuberculosis study.
A twenty-four-year epidemiologic study.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1963;87:1-88.
Di Perri G, Cruciani M, Danzi MC, et al.
Nosocomial epidemic of active tuberculosis among HIV-infected patients.
Lancet 1989;2: 1502-4.
Tuberculosis outbreak among persons in a residential facility for HIV-infected persons -- San Francisco.
MMWR 1991;40(38): 649-52.
Daley CL, Small PM, Schecter GF, et al.
An outbreak of tubercu- losis with accelerated progression among persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
An analysis using restriction- fragment-length polymorphisms.
N Engl J Med 1992;326:231-5.
American Thoracic Society/CDC.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1986;134:355-63.
The use of preventive therapy for tuberculous infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1990;39(RR-8):9-12.
International Union Against Tuberculosis Committee on Prophylaxis.
Efficacy of various durations of isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis: five years of follow-up in the IUAT trial.
Bull WHO 1982;60:555-64.
Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis.
A general review.
Adv Tuberc Res 1970;17:28-106.
Wadhawan D, Hira S, Mwansa N, Tembo G, Perine P.
In: Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on AIDS, Florence, Italy, June 16-21, 1991.
American Thoracic Society/CDC.
Control of tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1983;128:336-42.
American Thoracic Society/CDC.
Diagnostic standards and classifi- cation of tuberculosis.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1990;142:725-35.
Purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin anergy and HIV infection: guidelines for anergy testing and management of anergic persons at risk of tuberculosis.
MMWR 1991;40(RR-5):27-33.
Selwyn PA, Hartel D, Lewis VA, et al.
A prospective study of the risk of tuberculosis among intravenous drug users with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:545-50.
Rieder HL, Cauthen GM, Comstock GW, Snider DE Jr.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis in the United States.
Epidemiol Rev 1989;11:79-98.
Comstock GW, Livesay VT, Woolpert SF.
The prognosis of a positive tuberculin reaction in childhood and adolescence.
Am J Epidemiol 1974;99:131-8.
Tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection: recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis.
MMWR 1989;38(17):236-50.
Kent PT, Kubica GP.
Public health mycobacteriology.
A guide for the level III laboratory.
Atlanta, GA: CDC, 1985.
Lecoeur HF, Truffot-Pernot C, Grosset JH.
Experimental short- course preventive therapy of tuberculosis with rifampin and pyrazinamide.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;140:1189-93.
Crowle AJ, Sbarbaro JA, Judson FN, May MH.
The effect of ethambutol on tubercle bacilli within cultured human macrophages.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1985;132:742-5.
Gorzynski EA, Gutman SI, Allen W.
Comparative antimycobacterial activities of difloxacin, temafloxacin, enoxacin, pefloxacin, reference fluoroquinolones, and a new macrolide, clarithromycin.
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1989;33:591-2.
Rastogi N, Goh KS.
In vitro activity of the new difluorinated quinolone sparfloxacin (AT-4140) against Mycobacterium tubercu- losis compared with activities of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin.
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1991;35:1933-5.
Physicians' Desk Reference, 46 ed.
Montvale, NJ: Medical Economics Data, 1992:1653-4.
Figure_1 Return to top.
Table_1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Likelihood of infection with multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tubercu- losis among contacts thought to be newly infected * ================================================================================================= Estimated likelihood of Infectiousness Closeness and Contact's risk of infection with of the source intensity of exposure to drug- multidrug-resistant MDR-TB + case MDR-TB exposure susceptible TB M.
tuberculosis & ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ +-------------------+ + + - º High º º º + - - º High-intermediate º º º - + - º High-intermediate º º º - - - º Intermediate º º º + + + º Intermediate º +-------------------+ + - + Low-intermediate - + + Low-intermediate - - + Low ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Key: (+)=high; (-)=low.
* Anergic contacts should be considered likely to be newly infected if there is evidence of contagion among contacts with comparable exposure.
+ MDR-TB = multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
& Multidrug preventive therapy should be considered for persons in high, high-intermediate, and intermediate categories.
================================================================================================= Return to top.
Table_2 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
=============================================================================================== Return to top.
Figure_2 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly August 04, 2000 / 49(30);685-7 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Missed Opportunities for Prevention of Tuberculosis Among Persons With HIV Infection --- Selected Locations, United States, 1996--1997 Please note: An erratum has been published for this article.
To view the erratum, please click here.
Public health contact investigations are conducted to find persons who have been exposed to patients with active tuberculosis (TB) and to evaluate and treat those contacts for TB infection and active TB.
Persons in close (i.e., prolonged, frequent, or intense) contact with patients with active TB are at high risk for TB infection.
The risk for TB infection is increased greatly if the close contact is infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (1,2).
Isoniazid (INH) treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI) reduces the risk for developing active TB by 41%--92% (1).
This study examined the clinic records of TB programs to determine whether these programs used recommended practices to manage HIV-positive persons exposed to TB (3--8).
The study suggests TB programs need to review their contact investigation policies, procedures, and outcomes to reduce missed opportunities for preventing active TB among HIV-positive close contacts.
Study investigators collected data during June 1998--January 1999 site visits.
Eleven U.S.
urban areas were selected by the highest number of contacts completing LTBI treatment.
After case reports were linked to personal identifiers, study staff reviewed the clinic records for 6225 close contacts to 1080 sputum-smear--positive TB patients reported to CDC during July 1996--June 1997.
Of the 6225 close contacts, HIV status was unknown for 5415 (87%).
Of the 810 close contacts with known HIV status, 109 (13%) were HIV-infected, of whom 79 (72%) received a chest radiograph; 14 (13%) had TB symptoms (e.g., cough, night sweats, and weight loss); 90 (83%) received an initial tuberculin skin test (TST); and nine (8%) did not receive a chest radiograph or an initial TST.
Forty (53%) of 75 TST-negative contacts did not receive follow-up TSTs; 21 (28%) received neither a follow-up TST nor a chest radiograph.
Fourteen (13%) of 109 HIV-positive contacts were identified as having active TB compared with 120 (2%) of 6116 HIV-negative contacts or contacts with unknown HIV status.
HIV-infected close contacts were less likely to be TST-positive than HIV-negative contacts or contacts with unknown HIV status (14% and 36%, respectively).
Among 95 HIV-infected contacts without active TB, 11 (92%) of 12 TST-positive contacts were placed on LTBI treatment compared with 19 (23%) of 83 TST-negative or TST-unknown contacts.
A median of 50 days passed before starting an HIV-positive contact on LTBI treatment compared with 33 days for HIV-negative contacts or contacts with unknown HIV status.
TB programs employing public health nurses to conduct investigations placed 11 (92%) of 12 TST-negative or TST-unknown contacts on LTBI treatment compared with eight (11%) of 71 at programs that employ TB outreach workers.
Of the 30 HIV-positive contacts started on LTBI treatment, approximately half (14) completed treatment.
Directly observed treatment (DOT) for LTBI was given to three HIV-positive contacts; two completed treatment.
Of 16 HIV-positive close contacts who did not complete treatment, six (38%) refused or were unwilling to continue treatment, two (12%) were lost to follow-up, one (6%) had alcoholism, one (6%) could not tolerate medication, and six (38%) had undocumented reasons.
Reported by: TB programs in Los Angeles County, San Diego County, San Francisco, and Santa Clara County, California; Fulton County, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Newark, New Jersey; New York, New York; Shelby County, Tennessee; Houston, Texas; and King County, Washington.
Prevention Effectiveness Section, Research and Evaluation Br, Div of TB Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Editorial Note: The study showed that few close contacts were assessed for HIV and that one quarter of those known to be HIV-infected were not screened completely for TB.
Of eligible HIV-positive contacts, a third started and a sixth completed LTBI treatment.
Because HIV positivity alters the approach to TB screening and the use of LTBI treatment, early knowledge by the health-care provider of a close contact's HIV status is essential.
Active TB is curable and can be prevented in HIV-positive contacts when health-care providers know a close contact's HIV status and follow CDC guidelines for TB screening and treatment and facilitate adherence to TB treatment.
Health-care providers should assess all close contacts for HIV infection by asking about their serostatus and offering voluntary HIV counseling and testing when the status is unknown (8).
TB staff should be trained to offer HIV counseling and testing to close contacts or should collaborate with HIV programs to offer these services.
The use of rapid diagnostic tests may facilitate timely assessment of HIV status.
All HIV-positive close contacts should be evaluated for active TB by medical history, symptom screening, and chest radiograph, and those with an abnormal chest radiograph or symptoms should receive a sputum examination (5).
HIV-positive close contacts should receive an initial TST regardless of previous TST results (5); those with initial TST-negative reactions should receive a follow-up TST 10--12 weeks after last exposure to the patient with active TB (4).
As soon as active TB is excluded, LTBI treatment should begin for all HIV-infected close contacts regardless of age, TST results, or history of previous LTBI treatment (5).
Most HIV-positive close contacts should complete a full course of LTBI treatment (9).
Because the HIV-positive population is less likely to react to TST and more likely to have atypical chest radiographs, health-care providers need to be diligent in diagnosing TB infection and active TB.
Two treatment regimens, 9 months of INH (to be taken with pyridoxine to prevent peripheral neuropathy) or 2 months of daily rifampin (or rifabutin for those taking protease inhibitors or certain nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors) and pyrazinamide, are preferred for the treatment of HIV-positive persons with LTBI (10).
The use of 2-month LTBI regimens for HIV-infected adults may facilitate treatment implementation and increase completion rates (10).
However, INH is the only recommended regimen for children and pregnant women (5).
The findings in this study are subject to at least three limitations.
First, because the study relied on existing clinic records, documentation of HIV status often was incomplete or nonexistent.
Laws restricting the recording of HIV status in databases may have affected such documentation.
Second, the timing of health-care provider knowledge of HIV status and chest radiograph results was unknown because these dates were not collected and often were not recorded.
Third, this study was designed to represent urban TB programs not rural programs or programs not using LTBI treatment.
These findings indicate a need for better incorporation of HIV assessment into contact investigation procedures and improved coordination between local TB and HIV programs to facilitate voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and follow-up for HIV-infected close contacts.
Health-care providers and HIV-infected persons should be aware of optimal management of close contacts and of the benefits of prompt and well-supervised LTBI treatment to prevent active TB.
References Ferebee SH.
Controlled chemoprophylaxis trials in tuberculosis: a general review.
Advances in Tuberculosis Research 1970;17:28--106.
Markowitz N, Hansen NI, Hopewell PC, et al.
Incidence of tuberculosis in the United States among HIV-infected persons.
Ann Intern Med 1997;126:123--32.
American Thoracic Society.
Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994;149:1370.
Core curriculum on tuberculosis: what the clinician should know.
Atlanta, Georgia: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, CDC, 1994:33--4.
Prevention and treatment of tuberculosis among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: principles of therapy and revised recommendations.
MMWR 1998;47(no.
RR-20):37--41.
Self-study modules on tuberculosis: contact investigations for tuberculosis.
Atlanta, Georgia: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 1999.
1997 USPHS/IDSA guidelines for the prevention of opportunistic infections in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
MMWR 1997;46(no.
American Thoracic Society.
Control of tuberculosis in the United States.
American Review of Respiratory Disease 1992;6:1623--33.
Anergy skin testing and preventive therapy for HIV-infected persons: revised recommendations.
MMWR 1997;46(no.
American Thoracic Society and CDC.
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161(part 2):S221--S247.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports December 10, 1999 / 48(RR13);1-28 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Guidelines for National Human Immunodeficiency Virus Case Surveillance, Including Monitoring for Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Please note: An update has been published for this report.
To view the update, please click here.
The following CDC staff members prepared this report: Patricia L.
Fleming, Ph.D., M.S.
Janssen, M.D.
De Cock, M.D.
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention- Surveillance and Epidemiology National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention Ronald O.
Valdiserri, M.D., M.P.H.
Gayle, M.D., M.P.H.
Office of the Director National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention in collaboration with Jeffrey L.
Jones, M.D., M.P.H.
Stan Lehman, M.P.H Mary Lou Lindegren, M.D.
Nakashima, M.D.
Posid, M.P.H.
Sullivan, D.V.M., Ph.D.
Patricia A.
Sweeney, M.P.H.
Wortley, M.D., M.P.H.
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention Eva M.
Seiler, M.P.A Office of the Director National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention Harold W.
Jaffe, M.D.
Division of AIDS, STD, and TB Laboratory Research National Center for Infectious Diseases Summary CDC recommends that all states and territories conduct case surveillance for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection as an extension of current acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) surveillance activities.
The expansion of national surveillance to include both HIV infection and AIDS cases is a necessary response to the impact of advances in antiretroviral therapy, the implementation of new HIV treatment guidelines, and the increased need for epidemiologic data regarding persons at all stages of HIV disease.
Expanded surveillance will provide additional data about HIV-infected populations to enhance local, state, and federal efforts to prevent HIV transmission, improve allocation of resources for treatment services, and assist in evaluating the impact of public health interventions.
CDC will provide technical assistance to all state and territorial health departments to continue or establish HIV and AIDS case surveillance systems and to evaluate the performance of their surveillance programs.
This report includes a revised case definition for HIV infection in adults and children, recommended program practices, and performance and security standards for conducting HIV/AIDS surveillance by local, state, and territorial health departments.
The revised surveillance case definition and associated recommendations become effective January 1, 2000.
INTRODUCTION AIDS surveillance has been the cornerstone of national efforts to monitor the spread of HIV infection in the United States and to target HIV-prevention programs and health-care services.
Although AIDS is the end-stage of the natural history of HIV infection, in the past, monitoring AIDS-defining conditions provided population-based data that reflected changes in the incidence of HIV infection.
However, recent advances in HIV treatment have slowed the progression of HIV disease for infected persons on treatment and contributed to a decline in AIDS incidence.
These advances in treatment have diminished the ability of AIDS surveillance data to represent trends in the incidence of HIV infection or the impact of the epidemic on the health-care system.
As a consequence, the capacity of local, state, and federal public health agencies to monitor the HIV epidemic has been compromised (1-3).
In response to these changes and following consultations with multiple and diverse constituencies (including representatives of public health, government, and community organizations), CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) have recommended that all states and territories include surveillance for HIV infection as an extension of their AIDS surveillance activities (1,4).
In this manner, the HIV/AIDS epidemic can be tracked more accurately and appropriate information about HIV infection and AIDS can be made available to policymakers.
CDC continues to support a diverse set of epidemiologic methods to characterize persons affected by the epidemic in the United States (5-10).
Although HIV/AIDS case surveillance represents only one component among multiple necessary surveillance strategies, this report focuses primarily on CDC's recommendation to implement HIV case reporting nationwide.
This report provides a revised case definition for HIV infection in adults and children, recommended program practices, and performance and security standards for conducting HIV/AIDS surveillance by local, state, and territorial health departments.
The case definition for HIV infection was revised in consultation with CSTE and includes the current AIDS surveillance criteria as a component (11).
The recommended program practices and performance and security standards are based on a) the established practices of AIDS and other public health surveillance systems; b) reviews of state and local surveillance programs, confidentiality statutes, and security procedures; c) studies of the performance of surveillance systems; d) ongoing evaluations of determinants of test-seeking or test-avoidance in relation to state policies and practices on HIV testing and reporting; and e) discussions at a consultation held by CDC and CSTE in May 1997.
A draft of this report was made available for public comment from December 10, 1998, to January 11, 1999, through a notice published in the Federal Register (12).
BACKGROUND History of AIDS and HIV Case Surveillance Since the epidemic was first identified in the United States in 1981, population-based AIDS surveillance (i.e., reporting of AIDS cases and their characteristics to public health authorities for epidemiologic analysis) has been used to track the progression of the HIV epidemic from the initial case reports of opportunistic illnesses caused by a then unknown agent in a few large cities to the reporting of 711,344 AIDS cases nationwide through June 30, 1999 (5,13-15).
The AIDS reporting criteria have been periodically revised to incorporate new understanding of HIV disease and changes in medical practice (16-19).
In the absence of effective therapy for HIV infection, AIDS surveillance data have reliably detected changing patterns of HIV transmission and reflected the effect of HIV-prevention programs on the incidence of HIV infection and related illnesses in specific populations (20-25).
Because of these attributes, AIDS surveillance data have been used as a basis for allocating many federal resources for HIV treatment and care services and as the epidemiologic basis for planning local HIV-prevention services.
With the advent of more effective therapy that slows the progression of HIV disease, AIDS surveillance data no longer reliably reflect trends in HIV transmission and do not accurately represent the need for prevention and care services (26,27).
In 1996, national AIDS incidence and AIDS deaths declined for the first time during the HIV epidemic (Figure 1).
These declines have been primarily attributed to the early use of combination antiretroviral therapy, which delays the progression to AIDS and death for persons with HIV infection (1-3,9).
Revised HIV treatment guidelines recommend antiretroviral therapy for many HIV-infected persons in whom AIDS-defining conditions have not yet developed (28-30).
In addition, antiretroviral treatment of pregnant women and their newborns has reduced perinatal HIV transmission and resulted in dramatic declines in the incidence of perinatally acquired AIDS (31,32) (Figure 2).
In response to these changes in HIV treatment practices and the information needs of public health and other policymakers, CDC and CSTE have recommended that all states and territories extend their AIDS case surveillance activities to include HIV case surveillance and the reporting of HIV-exposed infants (1,4,33).
Since 1985, many states have implemented HIV case reporting as part of their comprehensive HIV/AIDS surveillance programs.
As of November 1, 1999, a total of 34 states and the Virgin Islands (VI) had implemented HIV case surveillance using the same confidential system for name-based case reporting for both HIV infection and AIDS; two of these states conduct pediatric surveillance only (5) (Figure 3).
Areas that conduct integrated HIV/AIDS surveillance for adults, adolescents, and children have reported 42% of cumulative U.S.
AIDS cases.
In addition, four states (Illinois, Maine, Maryland, and Massachusetts) and Puerto Rico, representing 11% of cumulative AIDS cases, are reporting cases of HIV infection using a coded identifier rather than patient name.
Washington has implemented HIV reporting by patient name to enable public health follow-up; after services and referrals are offered, names are converted into codes.
In most other states, HIV case reporting is under consideration or laws, rules, or regulations enabling HIV surveillance are expected to be implemented during 2000.
In contrast to AIDS case surveillance, HIV case surveillance provides data to better characterize populations in which HIV infection has been newly diagnosed, including persons with evidence of recent HIV infection such as adolescents and young adults (13-24-year-olds) (34,35).
Of the 52,690 HIV infections diagnosed from January 1994 through June 1997 in 25 states that conducted name-based HIV surveillance throughout this period, 14% of cases occurred in persons aged 13-24 years.
In comparison, of the 20,215 persons in whom AIDS was diagnosed in these 25 states, only 3% of cases occurred in persons aged 13-24 years.
Thus, AIDS case surveillance alone does not accurately reflect the extent of the HIV epidemic among adolescents and young adults.
Compared with persons reported with AIDS, those reported with HIV infection in these 25 states were more likely to be women and from racial/ethnic minorities (36) (Table 1).
These patterns reflect the characteristics of populations that were affected by the epidemic more recently, but they might also reflect changes in testing practices or behaviors (6,36,37).
Compared with the diagnosis of AIDS, which can be delayed among HIV-infected persons receiving antiretroviral therapy, the first diagnosis of HIV infection is not delayed by treatment but is affected by testing behaviors and targeted testing programs.
In addition, in these 25 states as of June 30, 1999, the total number of persons (159,083) who were reported as living with either a diagnosis of HIV infection (90,699) or AIDS (68,384) was 133% greater than that represented by the number living with AIDS alone (5).
Therefore, these states have documented that the combined prevalence of those living with a diagnosis of HIV infection and those living with AIDS provides a more realistic and useful estimate of the resources needed for patient care and services than does AIDS prevalence alone.
States with confidential name-based HIV case surveillance systems have used data on all perinatally exposed children to document the sharp decline in perinatally acquired HIV infection, the increase in the proportion of infected pregnant women who have been tested for HIV infection before delivery, and the high proportion of HIV-infected pregnant women who accept zidovudine therapy (31,38-44).
These findings contribute to HIV-prevention policy development.
CSTE and the American Academy of Pediatrics have recommended that all states and territories conduct pediatric HIV surveillance that includes all perinatally exposed infants to facilitate follow-up to assess infection status and access to care (11,31,33,40,45).
Persons can choose to be tested for HIV in the following ways: a) anonymously -- whereby identifying information, including patient name and other locating information, are not linked to the HIV test result (e.g., at anonymous testing sites) and b) confidentially -- whereby the HIV test result is linked to identifying information such as patient and provider names (e.g., at medical clinics).
In states that require HIV case reporting, providers in confidential medical or testing sites are required to report HIV-infected persons to public health authorities.
Not all persons infected with HIV are tested, and of those who are, testing occurs at different stages of their infection.
Therefore, HIV surveillance data provide a minimum estimate of the number of infected persons and are most representative of persons who have had HIV infection diagnosed in medical clinics and other confidential diagnostic settings.
CDC estimated that, in 1996, approximately two thirds of all infected persons in the United States had HIV infection diagnosed in such settings (46).
HIV surveillance data might not represent untested persons or those who seek testing at anonymous test sites or with home collection kits; such persons are not reported to confidential HIV/AIDS surveillance systems.
However, the availability of anonymous testing is important in promoting knowledge of HIV status among at-risk populations and provides an opportunity for counseling to reduce high-risk behaviors and voluntary referrals to appropriate medical diagnosis and prevention services.
Despite their current limitations, HIV and AIDS case surveillance data together can provide a clearer picture of the HIV epidemic than AIDS case surveillance data alone.
Therefore, CDC and CSTE continue to recommend that all areas implement HIV case reporting as part of a comprehensive strategy to monitor HIV infection and HIV disease.
The strategy should also include surveys of the incidence and prevalence of HIV infection; AIDS case surveillance; monitoring HIV-related mortality; supplemental research and evaluation studies, including behavioral surveillance; and statistical estimation of the incidence and prevalence of infection and disease.
Considerations in Implementing Nationwide HIV Case Surveillance The nationwide implementation of the 1993 expanded AIDS surveillance case definition prompted renewed discussions of the rationale and need for data representing HIV-infected persons who did not meet the AIDS-defining criteria.
Because many states were considering implementing HIV reporting, CDC held a consultation in 1993 with public health and community representatives to discuss relevant issues and concerns.
Community representatives' main concerns were that the security and confidentiality standards of surveillance programs might not be sufficient to prevent disclosures of information and that many persons at risk for HIV infection might therefore delay seeking HIV counseling and testing because of these confidentiality concerns.
The consensus of the consultants was that few published studies were of sufficient scientific quality to assess these concerns.
Therefore, the consultants identified several areas that required additional research and policy development before CDC and CSTE should consider recommending further expansion of HIV surveillance efforts.
These areas included a) the impact of reporting policies on testing behaviors and practices, including the decreased availability of anonymous testing in some states; b) the role of surveillance data in linking reported persons to prevention and care programs; c) the development of recommended standards for the security and confidentiality of publicly held HIV/AIDS surveillance data; and d) determining whether alternatives to reporting of patient names would reduce confidentiality risks while meeting the needs for high-quality surveillance data.
In response to the consultants' recommendations, CDC initiated several research projects to a) assess the effect of confidential name-based HIV surveillance on persons' willingness to seek HIV testing and care; b) review program practices and legal requirements for the security and confidentiality of state and local HIV/AIDS surveillance data; and c) evaluate the performance of coded-identifier-based surveillance systems.
Findings from these projects and expert advice from participants at numerous technical meetings and consultations held during the intervening period have guided formulation of the policies and practices recommended in this report.
The findings from these projects are summarized in the following three subsections: HIV surveillance and testing behavior, HIV surveillance using non-name-based unique identifiers, and confidentiality of HIV surveillance data.
HIV Surveillance and Testing Behavior Few studies have characterized test- or care-seeking behaviors in relation to state HIV reporting policies.
A 1988 general population study of previous or planned use of HIV testing services did not identify an association of reporting policy with testing behavior (47).
In contrast, interviews of persons seeking anonymous testing in 1989 documented that many would avoid testing if a positive test resulted in name reporting or partner notification (48).
A review of the published literature on HIV testing behaviors highlighted several limitations and biases in previous studies (49), including small numbers, lack of geographic and risk-group representativeness, and analysis of intent to test rather than of actual testing behavior.
An additional limitation of the available literature is that studies published 5-10 years ago might not reflect actual testing behaviors in the current treatment era.
Literature that highlights potential misuse of public health surveillance data might have the unintended effect of increasing test avoidance among some at-risk persons (50).
Examining knowledge of and perceptions about testing and reporting, as well as actual testing behavior, in the context of current treatment advances and evolving HIV reporting policies, can address some of the limitations of previous research.
To determine the effect of changes in reporting policies on actual testing behaviors among persons seeking testing at publicly funded HIV counseling and testing sites, CDC and six state health departments reviewed data routinely collected from these sites to compare HIV testing patterns during the 12 months before and the 12 months after implementation of HIV case surveillance (51).
In these areas, the number of HIV tests increased in four states and decreased in two states; the declines were not statistically significant.
All the analysis periods (25-month periods during 1992-1996) antedated the widespread beneficial effects of highly active antiretroviral therapy.
Slight variability in testing trends was observed among racial/ethnic subgroups and HIV-risk exposure categories; however, these data do not suggest that, in these states, the policy of implementing HIV case reporting adversely affected test-seeking behaviors overall (52).
CDC also supported studies by researchers at the University of California at San Francisco and participating state health departments to identify the most important determinants of test seeking or test avoidance among high-risk populations and to assess the impact of changes in HIV testing and HIV reporting policies.
Data from these surveys of high-risk persons in nine selected states about their perceptions and knowledge of HIV testing and HIV reporting practices documented that few respondents had knowledge of the HIV reporting policies in their respective states (53,54).
In surveys conducted during 1995-1996, respondents reported high levels of testing, with approximately three fourths reporting that they had had an HIV test.
The most commonly reported factors (by nearly half of respondents) that might have contributed to delays in seeking testing or not getting tested were fear of having HIV infection diagnosed or belief that they were not likely to be HIV infected.
"Reporting to the government" was a concern that might have contributed to a delay in seeking HIV testing for 11% of heterosexuals, 18% of injecting-drug users, and 22% of men who have sex with men; less than 1%, 3%, and 2% of respondents in these risk groups, respectively, indicated that this was their main concern.
Concern about name-based reporting of HIV infections to the government was a factor for not testing for HIV for 13% of heterosexuals, 18% of injecting-drug users, and 28% of men who have sex with men.
As the main factor for not testing for HIV, concern about name-based reporting to the government was substantially lower in all risk groups (1% of heterosexuals, 1% of injecting-drug users, and 4% of men who have sex with men) (55).
These findings suggest that name-based reporting policies might deter a small proportion of persons with high-risk sex or drug-using behaviors from seeking testing and, therefore, support the need for strict adherence to confidentiality safeguards of public health testing and surveillance data.
In addition, the survey documented that the availability of an anonymous testing option is consistently associated with higher rates of intention to test in the future.
In this survey, high levels of testing, together with high levels of test delay or avoidance associated with reasons other than concern about name reporting, suggest that addressing these other concerns may have a greater effect on testing behavior.
For example, 59% of men who have sex with men reported being "afraid to find out" as a factor for not testing, and 27% reported it as the main factor for not testing.
In addition, 52% of men who have sex with men reported "unlikely to have been exposed" as a factor for not testing, and 17% reported it as the main factor.
In a companion survey of persons reported with AIDS in eight of these same states, participants who had recognized their HIV risk and sought testing at anonymous testing sites reported entering care at an earlier stage of HIV disease than persons who were first tested in a confidential testing setting (e.g., STD clinics, medical clinics, or hospitals), where persons are frequently first tested when they become ill (56).
These data suggest that anonymous testing options are important in promoting timely knowledge of HIV status for some at-risk persons.
HIV Surveillance Using Non-Name-Based Unique Identifiers To assess the feasibility of using alternatives to confidential name-based methods for HIV surveillance, several states implemented reporting of cases of HIV infection or CD4 (a marker of immunosuppression in HIV-infected persons) laboratory test results using various numeric or alphanumeric codes.
Other states considered or tried to conduct case surveillance without name identifiers by using codes designed for nonsurveillance purposes (e.g., codes intended for use in tracking patients in case-management systems) (57).
In May 1995, CDC convened a meeting at which these states identified operational, technical, and scientific challenges in conducting surveillance using coded identifiers rather than patient names.
The states recommended that CDC evaluate additional coded identifiers and assist them in documenting and disseminating the results of their findings.
In addition, CDC supported research to evaluate the performance of a coded unique identifier (UI) in two states that implemented a non-name-based HIV case-reporting system while maintaining name-based surveillance methods for AIDS (58).
The study, conducted by Maryland and Texas during 1994-1996 in collaboration with CDC, documented nearly 50% incomplete reporting, in part because the social security number necessary to construct the identifier code was not uniformly available in medical or laboratory records.
In Maryland, provider-maintained logs were needed to link the UI to name-based medical records to obtain follow-up data (e.g., on HIV risk/exposure).
A more recent evaluation conducted by the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (MDHMH) reported data from a publicly funded counseling and testing site and documented a higher level of completeness of HIV reporting (88%) than the 50% documented in the previous study (58,59).
MDHMH reports that their code is unique to a given person and that assignment of two different codes to the same person is unlikely.
That is, the probability that a given code can distinguish one person from any other is greater than 99% if all the elements of the code are complete and accurate.
No published evaluations have assessed the probability of assigning the same code to different persons, which could occur if elements of the code were missing.
In contrast to MDHMH's findings, analogous evaluations in Texas, as well as studies that used more diverse methods in Los Angeles and New Jersey, failed to identify a code that performs as well as name-based methods (58,60-67).
On the basis of published evaluations (58), Texas recently switched to name-based HIV case surveillance.
In addition to Maryland, three other states (Illinois, Maine, and Massachusetts) and Puerto Rico recently implemented HIV reporting using four different coded identifiers.
CDC will assist these states in implementing their systems, establishing standardized criteria for assessing the overall performance of their systems, as well as assessing whether the required standards are achieved.
Additional evaluations will be conducted by the respective state health departments, in collaboration with CDC, to determine a) the ability of coded identifiers to accurately track disease progression from HIV infection to AIDS to death, b) their utility for evaluating public health efforts to eliminate perinatal HIV transmission, c) their acceptability, and d) their usefulness in matching to other databases (e.g., tuberculosis).
Confidentiality of HIV Surveillance Data A 1994 review of state confidentiality laws that protect HIV surveillance data documented that all states and many localities have legal safeguards for confidentiality of government-held health data (68).
These laws provide greater protection than laws protecting the confidentiality of information in health records held by private health-care providers.
Most states have specific statutory protections for public health data related to HIV infection and other STDs.
However, state legal protections vary, and CDC supports additional efforts to strengthen privacy protections for public health data.
On the basis of input from expert legal and public health consultants, the Model State Public Health Privacy Act (69) was developed by an independent contractor at the behest of CSTE.
If enacted by states, the provisions of the Model Act would ensure the confidentiality of surveillance data, strengthen statutory protections against disclosure, and preclude the intended or unintended use of surveillance data for non-public health purposes.
CDC has reviewed state and local security policies and procedures for HIV/AIDS surveillance data.
Since 1981, states have conducted AIDS surveillance, and few breaches of security have resulted in the unauthorized release of data (70,71).
Because survival has improved for HIV-infected persons, information about them might be maintained in public health surveillance databases for longer periods.
This has resulted in increased concerns about confidentiality of surveillance data among public health and community groups (72).
Therefore, CDC has issued technical guidance for security procedures that include enhanced confidentiality and security safeguards as evaluation criteria for federal funding of state HIV/AIDS surveillance activities (73).
The receipt of federal surveillance funding depends on the recipient's ability to ensure the physical security and confidentiality of case reports.
At the federal level, HIV/AIDS surveillance data are protected by several federal statutes, which ensure that CDC will not release HIV/AIDS surveillance data for non-public health purposes (e.g., for use in criminal, civil, or administrative proceedings).
Privacy is also ensured by the removal of names and the encryption of data transmitted to CDC.
On the basis of the importance of maintaining the confidentiality of persons in whom HIV infection has been diagnosed by public or private health-care providers, CDC has recommended additional standards to enhance the security and confidentiality of HIV and AIDS surveillance data (74,75).
GUIDELINES FOR SURVEILLANCE OF HIV INFECTION AND AIDS HIV Surveillance Case Definition for Adults and Children CDC, in collaboration with CSTE, has established a new case definition for HIV infection in adults and children that includes revised surveillance criteria for HIV infection and incorporates the surveillance criteria for AIDS (17-19,76) (Appendix).
HIV infection and AIDS case reports forwarded to CDC should be based on this definition.
For adults and children aged greater than or equal to 18 months, the HIV surveillance case definition includes laboratory and clinical evidence specifically indicative of HIV infection and severe HIV disease (AIDS).
For children aged less than 18 months (except for those who acquired HIV infection other than by perinatal transmission), the HIV surveillance case definition updates the definition in the 1994 revised classification system.
In addition, the new case definition is based on recent data regarding the sensitivity and specificity of HIV diagnostic tests in infants and clinical guidelines for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis for children (19,77-88) and for use of antiretroviral agents for pediatric HIV infection (30).
The revised surveillance case definitions for adults and children become effective January 1, 2000.
HIV/AIDS Case Surveillance Practices and Standards CDC and CSTE recommend that all states require reporting to public health surveillance of all cases of perinatal HIV exposure in infants, the earliest diagnosis of HIV infection (exclusive of anonymous tests) and the earliest diagnosis of AIDS in persons of all ages, and deaths among these persons (4,33).
Such reporting should constitute the core minimum performance standard for HIV/AIDS surveillance in all states and territories.
CDC provides federal funds and technical assistance to states to establish and conduct active HIV/AIDS surveillance programs.
On the basis of feasibility, needs, and resources, areas may be funded to implement additional surveillance activities (e.g., supplemental research and evaluation studies and serologic surveys), but these approaches might not be necessary in all areas.
The following recommended practices update and revise the CDC Guidelines for HIV/AIDS Surveillance released in 1996 and updated in 1998 as a technical guide for state and local HIV/AIDS surveillance programs (34,73-75).
Recommended practices represent CDC's guidance for best public health practice based on available scientific data.
Programmatic standards set minimum requirements for states to receive support from CDC for HIV/AIDS surveillance activities.
Recommended Surveillance Practices All state and local programs should collect a standard set of surveillance data for all cases that meet the reporting criteria for HIV infection and AIDS.
The standard data set includes the a) patient identifier, b) earliest date of diagnosis of HIV infection, c) earliest date of diagnosis of an AIDS-defining condition, d) demographic information (e.g., date of birth, race/ethnicity, and sex) and residence (i.e., city and state) at diagnosis of HIV infection and of AIDS, e) HIV risk exposure, f) facility of diagnosis, and g) date of death and state of residence at death.
In addition to this information, the date of HIV diagnostic testing, the results of these tests, and exposure to antiretroviral treatment for reducing perinatal HIV transmission should be collected for all infants with perinatal exposures to HIV.
Surveillance information, without patient identifiers, should be encrypted and forwarded to CDC through the HIV/AIDS Reporting System (or equivalent) in accordance with current practice.
To address specific public health information needs, local surveillance programs can cross-match HIV and AIDS surveillance data with other public health data (e.g., tuberculosis data) and collect supplemental surveillance data on all or a representative sample of cases.
CDC will provide technical assistance and recommend standardized surveillance methods to assist in collecting supplemental surveillance information.
On the basis of studies of coded identifier systems conducted in at least eight states, published evaluations of name-based and code-based surveillance systems, and CDC's assessment of the quality and reproducibility of the available data, CDC has concluded that confidential name-based HIV/AIDS surveillance systems are most likely to meet the necessary performance standards (36,58,60-67,89,90), as well as to serve the public health purposes for which surveillance data are required.
Therefore, CDC advises that state and local surveillance programs use the same confidential name-based approach for HIV surveillance as is currently used for AIDS surveillance nationwide.
However, CDC recognizes that some states have adopted, and others may elect to adopt, coded case identifiers for public health reporting of HIV infection.
CDC will provide technical assistance to all state and local areas to continue or establish HIV/AIDS surveillance systems and to evaluate their surveillance programs using standardized methods and criteria whether they use name or coded identifiers.
HIV and AIDS surveillance should be used to identify rare or previously unrecognized modes of HIV transmission, unusual clinical or virologic manifestations, and other cases of public health importance.
Providers are the most likely and timely source of identifying unusual laboratory or clinical cases.
They are encouraged to promptly report atypical cases to local, state, or territorial public health officials for follow-up.
CDC will provide technical assistance to state and local health departments conducting such investigations and will revise public health recommendations based on the findings, as appropriate.
HIV and AIDS case surveillance efforts should result in collection of data from all private and public sources of HIV-related testing and care services.
Laboratory-initiated surveillance methods should identify all cases that meet the laboratory reporting criteria for HIV infection and/or AIDS.
However, these methods will require follow-up with the provider to verify the infection status or clinical stage and obtain complete demographic and exposure risk data.
HIV-infected persons who are initially tested anonymously are eligible to be reported to CDC's HIV/AIDS surveillance database only after they have had HIV infection diagnosed in a confidential testing setting (e.g., by a health-care provider) and have test results or clinical conditions that meet the HIV and/or AIDS reporting criteria.
All state and local surveillance programs should regularly publish, in print or electronically, aggregated HIV/AIDS surveillance data in a format that facilitates use of these data by federal, state, and local public health agencies, HIV-prevention community planning groups and care-planning councils, academic institutions, providers and institutions that have reported cases, community-based organizations, and the general public.
Presentation of surveillance data should be consistent with established policies for data release that preclude the direct or indirect identification of a person with HIV infection or AIDS.
CDC will increase its efforts to coordinate requests for HIV/AIDS surveillance data across federal government agencies to use state/local surveillance resources efficiently.
CDC will also develop specific guidelines for analyzing and interpreting HIV/AIDS surveillance data.
All state and local surveillance programs should conduct regular, ongoing assessments of the performance of the surveillance system and redirect efforts and resources to ensure timely reporting of complete, representative, and accurate data.
CDC will provide technical assistance and recommend standardized evaluation methods to assist states in achieving the highest possible level of performance and to promote comparability of data throughout the United States.
Minimum Performance Standards To provide accurate and timely data for monitoring HIV/AIDS trends and ensuring a reliable measure of the number of persons in need of HIV-related prevention and care services, state and local HIV/AIDS surveillance systems should use reporting methods that provide case reporting that is complete (greater than or equal to 85%) and timely (greater than or equal to 66% of cases reported within 6 months of diagnosis).
In addition, evaluation studies should demonstrate that the approach used to conduct surveillance (i.e., name or coded identifier) must result in accurate case counts (less than or equal to 5% duplicate case reports and less than or equal to 5% incorrectly matched case reports).
Finally, at least 85% of reported cases or a representative sample should have information regarding risk for HIV infection after epidemiologic follow-up is completed.
All HIV/AIDS surveillance systems should collect the recommended standard data in a reliable and valid manner, allow matching to other public health databases (e.g., death registries) to benefit specific public health goals, and allow identification and follow-up of individual cases of public health importance.
To assess the quality of HIV and AIDS case surveillance as specified in the performance standards, states and local surveillance programs must conduct periodic evaluation studies.
CDC will recommend several evaluation methods to enable states to select methods best suited to their program needs and resources.
States should also evaluate the representativeness of their HIV case reports by monitoring the potential impact of HIV surveillance on test-seeking patterns and behaviors and review the extent to which surveillance data are being used for planning, targeting, and evaluating HIV-prevention programs and services.
The goal of these performance evaluations is to enhance the quality and usefulness of surveillance data for public health action.
During the next several years (i.e., 2000-2002), CDC will assist states in transitioning to an integrated HIV/AIDS surveillance system by evaluating current performance levels, instituting revised program operations and policies as necessary, and then reassessing performance.
Following this transition period, CDC will evaluate and award proposals for federal funding of state and local surveillance programs based on their capacity to meet these performance standards.
At that time, CDC will require that recipients of federal funds for HIV/AIDS case surveillance adopt surveillance methods and practices that will enable them to achieve the standards to ensure that federal funds are awarded responsibly.
Recommended Security and Confidentiality Practices State and local programs should document their security policies and procedures and ensure their availability for periodic review.
State and local health departments should minimize storage and retention of unnecessary or redundant paper or electronic reports and should review their data-retention policies consistent with CDC technical guidelines (73-75).
States should consider and evaluate removing names from surveillance records when they no longer serve the public health purpose for which they were collected.
Policies should provide the flexibility to remove cases that were reported in error or that are determined not to be infected with HIV on follow-up.
CDC will develop guidance for confirming HIV-infection status as testing and vaccine technologies evolve.
State and local health departments should also review their confidentiality practices to determine whether additional protections should be established (e.g., before implementation of HIV case surveillance).
States that plan to implement HIV case surveillance should review their current confidentiality statutes to determine whether they need to be strengthened.
The Model State Public Health Privacy Act (69) should be considered by states in developing their statutory protections of HIV/AIDS surveillance data.
Confidentiality laws should protect surveillance data that are transmitted (in a secure and confidential manner consistent with CDC's HIV/AIDS surveillance program requirements) to other public health programs as part of evaluation studies or for follow-up of cases of special public health importance.
The penalties for violating privacy and security should apply to all recipients of HIV/AIDS case surveillance information.
To further enhance security and confidentiality of data, states are encouraged to implement use of a double-key encryption and decryption system, in which identifying information encrypted by states using the first key can only be decrypted for access using the second key.
CDC will develop this option at the request of states that wish to reassure HIV-infected persons that HIV and AIDS surveillance data will be held confidentially and will be used only for specified public health purposes.
CDC will hold the second key under an Assurance of Confidentiality under Section 308(d) of the Public Health Service Act, which governs how CDC uses or releases surveillance data voluntarily shared with CDC by the states.
Under this assurance, CDC is prohibited from providing that key to a state planning to use HIV/AIDS surveillance data for non-public health purposes.
Minimum Security and Confidentiality Standards The security and confidentiality policies and procedures of state and local surveillance programs should be consistent with CDC standards for the security of HIV/AIDS surveillance data (73,74).
The minimum security criteria were established following reviews of all state and numerous local health department HIV/AIDS surveillance programs.
In general, the reviews documented that health departments have achieved a high level of security and that most state health departments meet or exceed the minimum standards.
Beginning in 2000, CDC will require that recipients of federal funds for HIV/AIDS surveillance establish the minimum security standards and include their security policy in applications for surveillance funds (73,74).
Examples of these standards include the following: Electronic HIV/AIDS surveillance data should be protected by computer encryption during data transfer.
States should continue the established practice of not including personal identifying information in HIV/AIDS surveillance data forwarded to CDC.
HIV and AIDS surveillance records should be located in a physically secured area and should be protected by coded passwords and computer encryption.
Access to the HIV/AIDS surveillance registry should be restricted to a minimum number of authorized surveillance staff, who are designated by a responsible authorizing official, have been trained in confidentiality procedures, and are aware of penalties for unauthorized disclosure of surveillance information.
Public health programs that receive HIV/AIDS information from matching of public health databases should have security and confidentiality protections and penalties for unauthorized disclosure equivalent to those for HIV/AIDS surveillance data and personnel.
Use of HIV/AIDS surveillance data for research purposes should be approved by appropriate institutional review boards, and persons conducting the research must sign confidentiality statements.
HIV and AIDS surveillance data made available for epidemiologic analyses must not include names or other identifying information.
State and local data release policies should ensure that the release of data for statistical purposes does not result in the direct or indirect identification of persons reported with HIV infection and AIDS.
In the rare instance of a possible security breach of HIV/AIDS surveillance data, state and local health departments should promptly investigate and report confirmed breaches to CDC to enable CDC to provide technical assistance to state and local health departments, develop recommendations for improvements in security measures, and provide oversight in monitoring changes in program practices.
Relation to HIV-Prevention and HIV-Care Programs: Recommended Practices At the federal level, the primary function of HIV/AIDS surveillance is collecting accurate and timely epidemiologic data for public health planning and policy.
Consequently, CDC is authorized to provide federal funds to states through surveillance cooperative agreements, both to achieve the goals of the national surveillance program and to assist states in developing their surveillance programs in accordance with state and local laws and practices.
Federal funds authorized for HIV/AIDS surveillance are not provided to states for developing or providing prevention or treatment case-management services; funds for such services are provided by CDC and other federal agencies under separate authorizations.
Whether and how states establish a link between individual case-patients reported to their HIV/AIDS surveillance programs and other health department programs and services for HIV prevention and treatment is within the purview of the states.
However, in considering or establishing such linkages, CDC recommends the following: The implementation of HIV case surveillance should not interfere with HIV- prevention programs, including those that offer anonymous HIV counseling and testing services.
Unless prohibited by state law or regulation, as a condition of federal funding for HIV prevention under a separate authorization, CDC requires that states and local areas provide anonymous HIV counseling and testing services.
CDC strongly recommends that states which prohibit anonymous HIV testing change this practice, given the overriding public health objective of encouraging persons to become aware of their HIV serologic status.
CDC does not view the availability of publicly funded anonymous counseling and HIV testing as incompatible with the ability to conduct HIV case surveillance in the population.
HIV testing services should be offered for participation on a voluntary basis and preceded by informed consent in accordance with local laws (91).
Both public and private providers should refer persons in whom HIV infection has been diagnosed to programs that provide HIV care, treatment, and comprehensive prevention case-management services.
Provider-based referrals of patients to prevention and care services should enable a timely, effective, and efficient means of ensuring that persons in whom HIV infection has been diagnosed receive needed services.
States should consult with providers, prevention- and care-planning bodies, and public health professionals in developing the policies and practices necessary to effect these linkages; should require that recipients of HIV/AIDS surveillance information be subject to the same penalties for unauthorized disclosure as HIV/AIDS surveillance personnel; and should evaluate the effectiveness of this public health approach.
Such an evaluation should ensure that the public health objectives of such linkages are achieved without unnecessarily increasing security and confidentiality risks to surveillance data or decreasing the acceptability of surveillance programs to health-care providers and affected communities.
Providers and affected communities, including HIV-prevention community planning groups, should participate with health departments in planning and implementing surveillance strategies, as well as programs and services.
COMMENTARY Surveillance Case Definition for HIV Infection and AIDS The revised case definition for HIV infection in adults and children integrates reporting criteria for HIV infection and AIDS in a single case definition and incorporates new laboratory tests in the laboratory criteria for HIV case reporting.
The 2000 case definition for HIV infection includes HIV nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) detection tests that were not commercially available when the AIDS case definition was revised in 1993.
The revised case definition for HIV infection also permits states to report cases to CDC based on the result of any test licensed for diagnosing HIV infection in the United States.
Although the reporting criteria generally reflect the recommendations for diagnosing HIV infection, the HIV reporting criteria are for public health surveillance and are not designed for making a diagnosis for an individual patient.
The laboratory criteria include the serologic HIV tests described in the clinical standards for diagnosing HIV infection (92-95).
The pediatric HIV reporting criteria include criteria for monitoring all children with perinatal exposures to HIV and reflect recent advances in diagnostic approaches that permit the diagnosis of HIV infection during the first months of life.
With HIV nucleic acid detection tests, HIV infection can be detected in nearly all infants aged greater than or equal to 1 month.
The timing of the HIV serologic and HIV nucleic acid detection tests and the number of HIV nucleic acid detection tests in the definitive and presumptive criteria for HIV infection are based on the recommended practices for diagnosing infection in children aged less than 18 months and on evaluations of the performance of these tests for children in this age group (30,77-88).
The clinical criteria in the case definition for HIV infection are included to ensure the complete reporting of cases with documented evidence of HIV infection or conditions meeting the AIDS case definition.
The AIDS-defining conditions are included as part of the single case definition for HIV infection.
In adults and adolescents aged greater than or equal to 13 years, criteria for presumptive and definitive AIDS-defining conditions have not been revised since 1993 and continue to include the laboratory markers of severe HIV-related immunosuppression and the opportunistic illnesses indicative of severe HIV disease, which greatly increase mortality risks.
Effect of National HIV Case Surveillance on Reporting Trends Changes in the HIV reporting criteria will have little effect on reporting trends in states already conducting HIV case surveillance.
However, the number of cases of HIV infection reported nationally will increase primarily because of implementation of HIV surveillance by the remaining states and local areas.
Many of the states that will implement HIV case surveillance in the future have high AIDS incidence rates.
Similar to the effect on AIDS surveillance trends after the implementation of the revised reporting criteria in 1993, the initiation of HIV surveillance by additional states might result in a sudden and large increase in HIV case reports (96).
On the basis of CDC's estimate that approximately 220,000 HIV-infected persons without AIDS-defining conditions had had HIV infection diagnosed in confidential testing settings and resided in states that were not conducting HIV case surveillance at the end of 1996 (46), the possibility exists that this number of persons could be reported with HIV infection from these states in 2000.
However, reporting of prevalent HIV infections is more likely to be spread over several years, and the annual increases will most likely be more modest.
Initially, most case reports will represent persons whose HIV infection was diagnosed before the implementation of HIV surveillance.
As the reporting of prevalent cases of HIV infection reaches full implementation nationwide, the number of HIV case reports will decrease, and case reports will increasingly represent persons with recent diagnoses of HIV infection.
To facilitate interpretation of HIV surveillance data and given that CDC strongly promotes continued availability of anonymous testing options, evaluations of HIV/AIDS surveillance systems will include assessments of the representativeness of HIV case surveillance data.
These assessments will include special surveys to evaluate the delays between HIV testing and entry to care.
In addition, these evaluations will be useful in determining the effectiveness of program efforts to refer persons into care services after the diagnosis of HIV infection in anonymous testing settings.
AIDS cases have declined nationwide; however, because AIDS surveillance trends are affected by the incidence of HIV infection, as well as the effect of treatment on the progression of HIV disease, future AIDS trends cannot be predicted.
AIDS surveillance will continue to be important in evaluating access to care for different populations and in identifying changes in trends that might signal a decrease in the effectiveness of treatment.
The long-term benefits of antiretroviral therapy and antimicrobial prophylaxis for AIDS-related illnesses continue to be defined.
In addition, various factors (e.g., access, adherence, treatment costs, and viral resistance) will influence the use and effectiveness of these therapies and their effects on AIDS incidence and mortality trends (97-99).
Because trends in new diagnoses of HIV infection are affected by when in the course of disease a person seeks or is offered HIV testing, such trends do not reflect the incidence of HIV infection in the population.
In addition, because all HIV-infected persons in the population might not have had the infection diagnosed, these data do not represent total HIV prevalence in the population.
Currently, interpretation of these data is complicated by several factors.
First, persons might have HIV infection diagnosed and later during the same calendar year have AIDS diagnosed, which can complicate presentation of the data.
Second, delays in reporting cases of HIV infection tend to be shorter than for AIDS cases, necessitating development of stage-specific statistical adjustments.
Third, methods of imputation of exposure risk data for AIDS cases have been developed based on historical patterns of reclassification after investigation, but comparable methods for cases of HIV infection are only recently available at the national level.
Finally, whether a trend in the number of new HIV diagnoses is stable, increasing, or decreasing might reflect current or historical HIV transmission patterns, changes in testing behaviors, and/or stage of the epidemic in the local geographic area.
Overall, in the United States, the incidence of HIV infection peaked approximately 15 years ago, and the annual number of HIV infections has been stable at approximately 40,000 since 1992, when CDC estimated the prevalence of HIV infection in the range of 650,000-900,000 infected persons (100,101).
Based on HIV and AIDS case surveillance data, CDC estimates that the prevalence of HIV infection at the end of 1998 was in the range of 800,000-900,000 infected persons.
Of these persons, approximately 625,000 (range: 575,000-675,000) had had HIV infection or AIDS diagnosed (CDC, unpublished data, 1999).
Because the annual number of new infections in recent years is relatively lower than during the peak incidence years, over time the remaining untested or anonymously tested infected persons will have HIV infection diagnosed through test-seeking, targeted testing, entry to care, or progression of disease to AIDS.
Ultimately, the number of new diagnoses of HIV infection will decrease each year as they increasingly represent the smaller pool of more recently infected persons.
Thus, in states that have been conducting HIV case reporting for several years, the number of new diagnoses of HIV infection is expected to decrease, then stabilize at a lower rate if the number of new infections remains stable.
For states that newly implement HIV reporting, a large bolus of reported prevalent infections is expected to occur, followed by a decline in the annual number of new cases until the number stabilizes at a lower level.
Recently, since the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on survival, the estimated number of new infections each year probably exceeds the number of deaths, and the prevalence of HIV infection might be increasing by a small proportion of total prevalence.
Thus, during the transition period to nationwide HIV-infection reporting, measures of the combined prevalence of HIV infection diagnoses and AIDS diagnoses will be most useful in projecting the need for resources for care and prevention.
Trends in the numbers of new cases reported will not provide immediate insights into the dynamics of the epidemic because prevalent case reports represent a mixture of new and old HIV infections.
Within the next several years, however, all states will be able to characterize new diagnoses of HIV infection or a representative sample by demographic and clinical characteristics that will provide meaningful insights into actual HIV transmission patterns and will have well-characterized the health and service needs of the population of prevalent HIV-infected persons.
CDC will develop analysis profiles, statistical adjustments for reporting delays and imputation of risk data, and recommendations for data presentation to assist states in analyzing and interpreting their HIV/AIDS surveillance data during this transition period.
HIV/AIDS Surveillance Practices Laboratories will be an increasingly important source of information from which to initiate reporting.
HIV infection is frequently diagnosed in the outpatient clinical setting, and laboratory-initiated reporting will be particularly useful in identifying outpatient sources of HIV testing (89) although contact with individual providers is necessary to complete the reporting process.
The routine collection of HIV and CD4 test data from laboratories and managed-care organizations promotes completeness of reporting and may increase the simplicity and efficiency of initial case-finding activities by local surveillance programs.
Nonetheless, repeated testing of the same persons results in multiple reports and necessitates labor-intensive follow-up to eliminate duplicates.
CDC is increasing its efforts to promote standards in laboratory reporting and to facilitate the transfer of data from public health and commercial laboratories to health departments.
Performance criteria for HIV and AIDS surveillance are necessary to ensure that surveillance data are of sufficient quality to target prevention and care resources and to detect emerging trends in the HIV epidemic.
Evaluations of HIV and AIDS surveillance programs have documented that areas should be able to meet these performance criteria (5,36,61-67,89,90).
According to these evaluations of name-based surveillance systems, the completeness of HIV surveillance (from 79% to approximately 95%) and AIDS surveillance (from 85% to approximately 95%) is high, and reporting is timely with nearly one half of AIDS cases and three quarters of cases of HIV infection reported to the national HIV/AIDS reporting system within 3 months of diagnosis (5).
CDC estimates that the duplication rate of cases of HIV infection reported from different states to the national surveillance database was approximately 2%; for AIDS cases, the rate was approximately 3% (5,36).
The performance criteria also reflect the need for public health surveillance systems to identify and follow-up on cases of public health importance.
On the basis of current evaluation studies of non-name-based case identifiers and the current infrastructure of state and local health departments, name-based methods for collecting and reporting public health data provide the most feasible, simple, and reliable means for ensuring timely, accurate, and complete reporting of persons in whom HIV infection or AIDS has been diagnosed.
Confidential name-based reporting also facilitates follow-up of perinatally exposed infants to determine their infection status and of persons reported with HIV infection to determine progression to AIDS and vital status (36,42).
A name-based patient identifier allows providers to report cases directly from their name-based medical records, facilitates elimination of duplicate case reports, enables cross-matching of HIV and AIDS data with other name-based public health data (e.g., tuberculosis surveillance), permits follow-up with providers to collect information regarding risk for HIV infection and other data of public health importance.
Through follow-up with providers, the HIV/AIDS surveillance system has provided an effective means to identify rare or unusual modes of HIV transmission and infection with rare strains of HIV and to improve prevention of HIV-related opportunistic illnesses (102-106).
CDC will assist states in monitoring the impact of changing medical interventions, epidemiology, and HIV case surveillance policies on test- and care-seeking behaviors.
Security and Confidentiality of HIV and AIDS Surveillance The revision of the case definition for HIV infection provides an opportunity to review and strengthen state and local confidentiality laws and regulations.
Although state HIV/AIDS surveillance confidentiality laws and regulations adequately protect privacy compared with the statutory protections of other health-care data, state statutes differ in the degree of privacy protections afforded health information and the criteria for permissible disclosures of personal information.
Most state statutes describe some permissible disclosures of public health information.
To help ensure uniform confidentiality protections, the Georgetown University Law Center developed the Model State Public Health Privacy Act (69).
Public health, legislative, legal, and community advocacy representatives provided expert consultation.
The model legislative language protects confidential, identifiable information held by state and local public health departments against unauthorized and inappropriate non-public health uses but still allows public health officials to use surveillance information to accomplish the public health objectives defined by the law (69).
CDC recommends that states planning to implement HIV case surveillance should consider adopting the model legislation, if necessary, to strengthen the current level of protection of public health data.
Although HIV/AIDS surveillance systems have exemplary records of security and confidentiality, it is essential for all programs to identify ways to strengthen data protection because of a perceived greater sensitivity of HIV case surveillance compared with that of AIDS case surveillance alone (71).
Providing accurate public education and factual media messages to inform vulnerable populations, as well as promoting testing programs that facilitate referrals into treatment and prevention services, will be important to ensure that test seeking and acceptance are not adversely affected as additional states implement HIV case reporting.
The revised security standards (74) promote enhancements to further reduce any potential for disclosure of sensitive surveillance data.
CDC continues to conduct evaluations of methods to further enhance data security, including the use of coding and encryption of data collected in the HIV/AIDS reporting system.
HIV Prevention and Care CDC has published guidelines concerning the provision and targeting of HIV counseling and testing services (29,41,107-111) and provides support for most public sources of HIV testing.
The availability of anonymous HIV testing services might be particularly important for persons who delay seeking testing because of a concern that others might learn of their serologic status (55).
Studies have documented that the availability of anonymous HIV testing is associated with increased numbers of persons seeking testing services (112-115).
Anonymous HIV testing services are a required element of federally supported prevention programs unless prohibited by state law or regulation.
Currently, 39 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia provide anonymous HIV testing services.
PCRS programs provide HIV counseling and testing to persons who might be unaware of HIV risk exposures, and these services are a required component of federally sponsored HIV-prevention programs (116,117).
The provision of such services to persons in whom HIV infection or AIDS has been diagnosed, especially those who receive services in publicly funded testing and clinic settings, is conducted successfully by states regardless of whether they have implemented HIV reporting (118).
Referrals from surveillance to other health department services, when they occur, should be established in a manner that ensures both the quality of the surveillance data and the security of the surveillance system, as well as the quality, confidentiality, and voluntary nature of HIV-prevention services (119).
At the federal level, the primary function of HIV/AIDS surveillance remains the provision of accurate epidemiologic data for public health information, planning, and evaluation.
Persons in whom HIV infection has been diagnosed at either confidential or anonymous test sites should be promptly referred to facilities that provide confidential HIV care.
Recent studies have documented disparities in ensuring timely testing and access to care by demographic, socioeconomic, and other factors (120,121).
Although not directly responsible for the delivery of medical care, CDC provides federal direction for state and local programs that facilitate referral of HIV-infected persons from counseling and testing centers and health education/risk-reduction programs to HIV care facilities.
CDC has developed guidelines to strengthen the system of referrals between HIV testing sites and care programs, in part by increasing coordination with the Health Resources and Services Administration and the Ryan White CARE Act grantees (122).
To provide further guidance, CDC has participated in developing model contract language for Medicaid programs that serve persons with HIV infection to ensure cooperation with public health authorities in case reporting and follow-up.
A well-developed and well-implemented HIV and AIDS case surveillance system is integral to public health efforts to identify disparities, target programs and resources to vulnerable populations, and assess the impact of these programs in reducing infection, disease, and premature death.
CDC is undertaking a national effort to further reduce perinatal HIV transmission in the United States.
This effort will incorporate HIV counseling and voluntary testing, treatment, and outreach to pregnant women, especially those who are racial/ethnic minorities and substance abusers, and will integrate prevention and treatment services for women and children.
Surveillance for perinatally HIV-exposed and HIV- infected children will remain a critical measure of the effectiveness of this campaign (32,40,41,123,124).
CONCLUSION The implementation of a national surveillance network to include both HIV and AIDS case reporting is a necessary response to epidemiologic trends and new standards for HIV care (125-127).
Integrated HIV/AIDS surveillance programs will provide data to characterize persons in whom HIV infection has been newly diagnosed, including those with evidence of recent infection, persons with severe HIV disease (AIDS), and those dying of HIV disease or AIDS.
The revised HIV surveillance case definition and the establishment of minimum performance standards will promote uniform case ascertainment and will ensure that the surveillance data are of sufficient quality for effective planning and allocation of resources for prevention and care programs.
References CDC.
Update: trends in AIDS incidence -- United States, 1996.
MMWR 1997;46;861-7.
Update: trends in AIDS incidence, deaths, and prevalence -- United States, 1996.
MMWR 1997;46:165-73.
Fleming PL, Ward JW, Karon JM, Hanson DL, De Cock KM.
Declines in AIDS incidence and deaths in the USA: a signal change in the epidemic.
AIDS 1998;12(suppl A):S55-S61.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
CSTE position statement ID-4: national HIV surveillance -- addition to the national public health surveillance system.
Atlanta, GA: Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, 1997.
HIV/AIDS surveillance report, 1999;11(No.
National HIV prevalence survey, 1997 summary.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC;1998:1-25.
Janssen RS, Satten GA, Stramer SL, et al.
New testing strategy to detect early HIV-1 infection for use in incidence estimates and for clinical and prevention purposes.
JAMA 1998;280:42-8.
Erratum: JAMA 1999;281:1893.
Buehler JW, Diaz T, Hersh BS, Chu SY.
The supplement to HIV-AIDS surveillance project: an approach for monitoring HIV risk behaviors.
Public Health Rep 1996;111(S1):133-7.
Surveillance for AIDS-defining opportunistic illnesses, 1992-1997.
In: CDC surveillance summaries, April 16, 1999.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
Mortality patterns -- United States, 1997.
MMWR 1999;48:664-8.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
CSTE position statement ID-1: definition for case surveillance of HIV infection (including AIDS).
Atlanta, GA: Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, 1998.
Draft guidelines for HIV case surveillance, including monitoring HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
Federal Register 1998;63:68289.
Pneumocystis pneumonia -- Los Angeles.
MMWR 1981;30:250-2.
Kaposi's sarcoma and Pneumocystis pneumonia among homosexual men -- New York City and California.
MMWR 1981;30:305-8.
Update on acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) -- United States.
MMWR 1982;31:507-8,513-4.
Revision of the case definition of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome for national reporting -- United States.
MMWR 1985;34:373-5.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36(suppl 1):1-15.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
1994 Revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children less than 13 years of age.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
Update: acquired immunodeficiency syndrome -- United States, 1989.
MMWR 1990;39:81-6.
Update: acquired immunodeficiency syndrome -- United States, 1991.
MMWR 1992;41:463-8.
Projections of the number of persons diagnosed with AIDS and the number of immunosuppressed HIV-infected persons -- United States, 1992-1994.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
Heterosexually acquired AIDS -- United States, 1993.
MMWR 1994;43:155-60.
AIDS among racial/ethnic minorities -- United States, 1993.
MMWR 1994;43:644-7,653-5.
AIDS among children -- United States, 1996.
MMWR 1996;45:1005-10.
Hammer SM, Katzenstein DA, Hughes MD, et al.
A trial comparing nucleoside monotherapy with combination therapy in HIV-infected adults with CD4 cell counts from 200 to 500 per cubic millimeter.
N Engl J Med 1996;335:1081-90.
Collier AC, Coombs RW, Schoenfeld DA, et al.
Treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection with saquinavir, zidovudine, and zalcitabine.
N Engl J Med 1996;334:1011-7.
Carpenter CC, Fischel MA, Hammer SM, et al.
Antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection in 1998: updated recommendations of the International AIDS Society -- USA panel.
JAMA 1998; 280:78-86.
Report of the NIH Panel to define principles of therapy of HIV infection and guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-infected adults and adolescents.
MMWR 1998;47(No.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection.
MMWR 1998; 47(No.
Update: perinatally acquired HIV/AIDS -- United States, 1997.
MMWR 1997;46:1086-92.
Lindegren ML, Byers RH, Thomas P, et al.
Trends in perinatal transmission of HIV/AIDS in the United States.
JAMA 1999;282:531-8.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
CSTE position statement ID-6: pediatric HIV infection -- addition to the National Public Health Surveillance System (NPHSS).
Atlanta, GA: Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, 1995.
HIV infection reporting -- United States.
MMWR 1989;38:496-9.
Sweeney P, Fleming PL, Ward JW, et al.
12th World AIDS Conference, Geneva, June 28-July 3, 1998.
Diagnosis and reporting of HIV and AIDS in states with integrated HIV and AIDS surveillance -- United States.
MMWR 1998;47:309-14.
Update: public health surveillance for HIV infection -- United States, 1989 and 1990.
MMWR 1990;39:853,859-61.
Wortley PM, Fleming PL, Lindegren ML, et al.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1996;11:205-6.
Lindegren ML, Fleming P, Steinberg S, et al.
Implementation of U.S.
Public Health Service (USPHS) recommendations to prevent perinatal HIV transmission: pediatric HIV case surveillance, U.S.
In: Program and abstracts of the Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy.
Toronto, Canada: American Society for Microbiology, September 1997.
Recommendations of the Public Health Service Task Force on use of zidovudine to reduce perinatal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
Public Health Service recommendations for human immunodeficiency virus counseling and voluntary testing for pregnant women.
MMWR 1995;44(No.
Success in implementing Public Health Service guidelines to reduce perinatal transmission of HIV -- Louisiana, Michigan, New Jersey, and South Carolina, 1993, 1995, and 1996.
MMWR 1998;47:688-91.
MMWR 1998;47:718.
Lansky A, Jones JL, Burkham S, et al.
Adequacy of prenatal care and prescription of zidovudine to prevent perinatal HIV transmission.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1999;21:223-7.
PHS task force recommendations for the use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant women infected with HIV-1 for maternal health and for reducing perinatal HIV-1 transmission in the United States.
MMWR 1998;47(No.
Wilfert L, Beck DT, Fleischman AR, et al.
Surveillance of pediatric HIV infection.
Pediatrics 1998;101:315-9.
Sweeney PA, Fleming PL, Karon JM, et al.
In: Program and abstracts of the Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy.
Toronto, Canada: American Society for Microbiology, September 1997.
Philips KA.
The relationship of 1988 state HIV testing policies to previous and planned voluntary use of HIV testing.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 1994:7:403-9.
Kegeles SM, Coates TJ, Lo B, Catania JA.
JAMA 1989;261:1275-6.
Driving the epidemic underground?
A new look at law and the social risk of HIV testing.
AIDS Public Policy Journal 1997;12:66-78.
Naming names -- mandatory name-based HIV reporting: impact and alternatives.
AIDS Policy Law 1996 (May):1-4.
Nakashima AK, Horsley RM, Frey RL, Sweeney PA, Weber JT, Fleming PL.
Effect of HIV reporting by name on use of HIV testing in publicly funded counseling and testing sites.
JAMA 1998;280:1421-6.
Paul SM, Cross H, Costa S.
JAMA 1999;281:1379.
Hecht FM, Coleman S, Lehman JS, et al.
J Gen Intern Med 1997;12:(suppl 1):108.
Hecht FM, Colman S, Lehman JS, et al.
In: Abstracts of the American Public Health Association 125th Annual Meeting and Exposition, Indianapolis, Indiana, November 9-13, 1997.
HIV testing among populations at risk for HIV infection -- nine states.
MMWR 1998: 47:1086-91.
Bindman AB, Osmond D, Hecht FM, et al.
A multi-state evaluation of anonymous HIV testing and access to medical care.
JAMA 1998;280:1416-20.
Allison Greenspan Communications.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention consultation on developing guidelines for HIV surveillance.
Atlanta, GA: Allison Greenspan Communications, 1993.
Evaluation of HIV case surveillance through the use of non-name unique identifiers -- Maryland and Texas, 1994-1996.
MMWR 1998;46:1254-8,1271.
Solomon L, Flynn C, Eldred L, Caldeira E, Wasserman M, Benjamin G.
Evaluation of a state-wide non-name based HIV surveillance system.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol (in press).
Marsh K, Morgan M, Bunch G, Costa S, Fleming P, Wortley P.
In: Abstracts of the National HIV Prevention Conference, Atlanta, Georgia, August 29-September 1, 1999.
Rosenblum LS, Buehler JB, Morgan MW, et al.
The completeness of AIDS case reporting, 1988: a multisite collaborative surveillance project.
Am J Public Health 1992;82:1495-9.
Buehler JW, Devine OJ, Berkelman RL, Chevarley FM.
Impact of the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic on mortality trends in young men, United States.
Am J Public Health 1990; 80:1080-6.
Jara M, Gallagher K.
Abstracts of the annual meeting of the Society for Epidemiologic Research, Alberta, Canada, June 12-14, 1997.
Klevens RM, Fleming PL, Gaines CG, Troxler S.
Completeness of HIV reporting in Louisiana, U.S.A.
Int J Epidemiol 1998;27:1105.
Meyer PA, Jones JL, Garrison CZ.
Completeness of reporting of diagnosed HIV-infected hospital patients.
J Acquir Immune Def Syndr 1994;7:1067-73.
Assessment of laboratory reporting to supplement active AIDS surveillance -- Colorado.
MMWR 1993;42:749-52.
Schwarcz SK, Hsu LC, Parisi MK, Katz MH.
The impact of the 1993 AIDS case definition on the completeness and timeliness of AIDS surveillance.
AIDS 1999;13:1109-14.
Gostin LO, Lazzarini Z, Neslund VS, Osterholm M.The public health information infrastructure.
JAMA 1996;275:1921-7.
Gostin LO, Hodge JG.
Model State Public Health Privacy Act.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University, 1999.
AIDS list is out.
Petersburg Times.
September 20, 1996:1,10.
Torres CG, Turner ME, Harkess JR, Istre GR.
Security measures for AIDS and HIV.
Am J Public Health 1991;81:210-1.
Wood WJ, Dilley JW, Lihatsh T, et al.
Name-based reporting of HIV-positive test results as a deterrent to testing.
Am J Public Health 1999;89:1097-1100.
Guidelines for HIV/AIDS surveillance.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, 1996.
Update: guidelines for HIV/AIDS surveillance -- Appendix C: security and confidentiality.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, 1998.
Integrating HIV and AIDS surveillance: a resource manual for surveillance coordinators.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, 1998.
Classification system for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in children under 13 years of age.
MMWR 1987;36:225-36.
Nesheim S, Lee F, Kalish ML, et al.
Diagnosis of perinatal HIV infection by polymerase chain reaction and p24 antigen detection after immune complex dissociation in an urban community hospital.
J Infect Dis 1997;175:1333-6.
Steketee R, Abrams EJ, Thea DM, et al.
Early detection of perinatal HIV type 1 infection using HIV RNA amplification and detection.
J Infect Dis 1997;175:707-11.
McIntosh K, Pitt J, Brambilla D, et al.
Blood culture in the first 6 months of life for the diagnosis of vertically transmitted HIV infection.
J Infect Dis 1994;170:996-1000.
Dunn DT, Brandt CD, Krivine A, et al.
The sensitivity of HIV-1 DNA polymerase chain reaction in the neonatal period and the relative contributions of intrauterine and intrapartum transmission.
AIDS 1995;9:F7-F11.
Bremer JW, Lew JF, Cooper E, et al.
Diagnosis of infection with human immunodeficiency type 1 by a DNA polymerase chain reaction assay among infants enrolled in the Women and Infants Transmission Study.
J Pediatr 1996;129:198-207.
Delamare C, Burgard M, Mayaux M, et al.
HIV-1 RNA detection in plasma for the diagnosis of infection in neonates.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1997;15:121-5.
Rich KD, JandaW, Kalish L, et al.
Immune complex-dissociated p24 antigen in congenital or perinatal HIV infection: role in the diagnosis and assessment of risk of infection in infants.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1997;15:198-203.
McIntosh K, Comeau A, Wara D, et al.
The utility of IgA antibody to HIV-1 in early diagnosis of vertically transmitted infection.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 1996;150:598-602.
1995 Revised guidelines for prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia for children infected with or perinatally exposed to human immunodeficiency virus.
MMWR 1995; 44(No.
RR-4):1-11.
Perelson AS, Neumann AU, Markowitz M, Leonard JM, Ho DD.
HIV-1 dynamics in vivo: virion clearance rate, infected cell life sponsored viral generation time.
Science 1996;271:1582-6.
Simonds RJ, Brown TH, Thea DM, et al.
Sensitivity and specificity of a qualitative RNA detection assay to diagnose HIV infection in young infants.
AIDS 1998;12:1545-9.
Young NL, Shaffer N, Chaowanachan T, et al.
6th Conference on retroviruses and opportunistic infections, Chicago, February 1999.
Klevens RM, Fleming PL, Li J, Karon J.
Impact of laboratory-initiated reporting of CD4+ T lymphocytes on U.S.
AIDS surveillance.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1997;14:56-60.
Klevens RM, Fleming PL, Neal JJ, et al.
Is there really a heterosexual AIDS epidemic in the United States?
Findings from a multisite validation study, 1992-1995.
Am J Epid 1999;149:75-84.
Public Health Service guidelines for counseling and antibody testing to prevent HIV infection and AIDS.
MMWR 1987;36:509-15.
Interpretation and use of the Western blot assay for serodiagnosis of human immuno-deficiency virus type 1 infections.
MMWR 1989;38(No.
S-7):87-95.
Rich JD, Merriman NA, Mylonakis E, et al.
Misdiganosis of HIV infection by HIV-1 plasma viral load testing: a case series.
Ann Intern Med 1999;130:37-9.
Testing for antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 in the United States.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
RR-12):1-9.
Update: HIV counseling and testing using rapid tests.
MMWR 1998;47:211-5.
Update: trends in AIDS diagnosis and reporting under the expanded surveillance definition for adolescents and adults -- United States, 1993.
MMWR 1994;43:160-1,167-70.
Tebas P, Royal M, Fichtenbaum C, et al.
In: Program and abstracts of the 5th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, Chicago, IL, February 1-5, 1998.
Melnick D, Greiner D, Little P, Melnick K.
In: Program and abstracts of the 5th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, Chicago, IL, February 1-5, 1998.
Katzenstein DA, Holodniy M.
HIV viral load quantification, HIV resistance, and antiretroviral therapy.
AIDS Clin Rev 1995-96:277-303.
Karon JM, Rosenberg PS, McQuillan G, et al.
Prevalence of HIV infection in the United States, 1984 to 1992.
JAMA 1996:276:126-31.
Rosenberg PS, Biggar RJ.
Trends in HIV incidence among young adults in the United States.
JAMA 1998;279:1894-9.
Possible transmission of human immunodeficiency virus to a patient during an invasive dental procedure.
MMWR 1990;39:489-93.
Ward JW, Holmberg SD, Allen JR, et al.
Transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) by blood transfusions screened as negative for HIV antibody.
N Engl J Med 1988;318:473-8.
Cardo DM, Culver DH, Ciesielski CA, et al.
A case-control study of HIV seroconversion in health-care workers after percutaneous exposure.
N Engl J Med 1997;337:1485-90.
Identification of HIV-1 group O infection -- Los Angeles County, California, 1996.
MMWR 1996;45:561-5.
Simonds RJ, Lindegren ML, Thomas P, et al.
Prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia among children with perinatally acquired human immunodeficiency virus infection in the United States.
Pneumocystis carinii Pneumonia Prophylaxis Evaluation Working Group.
N Engl J Med 1995;332:786-90.
Recommendations for HIV testing services for inpatients and outpatients in acute-care hospital settings.
MMWR 1993;42(No.
1999 USPHS/IDSA guidelines for the prevention of opportunistic infections in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
1998 Guidelines for treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.
MMWR 1997;47(No.
RR-1):11-16.
HIV Counseling, testing, and referral standards and guidelines.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, May 1994.
HIV partner counseling and referral services: guidance.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 1998.
Meyer PA, Jones JL, Garrison CZ, et al.
Comparison of individuals receiving anonymous and confidential testing for HIV.
South Med J 1994;87:344-7.
Fehrs LJ, Fleming D, Foster LR, et al.
Trial of anonymous versus confidential human immunodeficiency virus testing.
Lancet 1988;2:379-82.
Hirano D, Gellert GA, Fleming K, et al.
Anonymous HIV testing: the impact of availability on demand in Arizona.
Am J Public Health 1994;84:2008-10.
Kassler WJ, Meriwether RA, Klimko TB, et al.
Eliminating access to anonymous HIV antibody testing in North Carolina: effects on HIV testing and partner notification.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 1997;14:281-9.
West GR, Stark KA.
Partner notification for HIV prevention: a critical reexamination.
AIDS Educ Prev 1997;9(suppl B):68-78.
Francis DP, Anderson RE, Gorman ME, et al.
Targeting AIDS prevention and treatment toward HIV-1-infected persons: the concept of early intervention.
JAMA 1989;262:2572-6.
Toomey K, Cates W.
Partner notification for the prevention of HIV infection.
AIDS 1989;S57-S62.
Osmond DH, Bindman AB, Vranizan K, et al.
Name-based surveillance and public health interventions for persons with HIV infection.
Ann Intern Med 1999;131:775-9.
Bozzette SA, Berry SH, Duan N, et al.
The care of HIV-infected adults in the United States.
N Engl J Med 1999;339:1897-1904.
Nakashima AK, Jones JL, Burgess DA, Ward JW.
12th World AIDS Conference, Geneva, June 28-July 3, 1998.
HIV prevention case management: guidance.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, September 1997.
Institute of Medicine, National Research Council.
Reducing the odds: preventing perinatal transmission of HIV in the United States.
Stoto MA, McCormick MC, eds.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1999.
Wade NA, Birkhead GS, Warren BL, et al.
Abbreviated regimens of zidovudine prophylaxis and perinatal transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus.
N Engl J Med 1998;339:1409-14.
Francis DP, Singleton JA.
Reporting of HIV-1 infection through the provision of essential services.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 1993;6:285-6.
Gostin LO, Ward JW, Baker AC.
National HIV case reporting for the United States: a defining moment in the history of the epidemic.
N Engl J Med 1997;337:1162-7.
Steinbrook R.
Battling HIV on many fronts.
N Engl J Med 1997;337:779-81.
Table 1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
† Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
§ Numbers are estimates after adjustments for reporting delays.
Point estimates are presented for reproducibility of the data.
¶ Percentages may not total 100 because of rounding.
** Persons of races other than black and white were categorized as API (Asian/Pacific Islander), NA (Native American), unknown, because estimates were too small for separate analysis.
††Column totals include missing/other for some categories (e.g., missing sex).
Persons infected through receipt of blood or blood products are included under other/unreported risk.
Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Figure 3 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly March 19, 2004 / 53(10);214-216 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Tuberculosis Outbreak in a Community Hospital --- District of Columbia, 2002 After declining for nearly 30 years, during 1985--1992, tuberculosis (TB) rates in the United States experienced a resurgence, and several large nosocomial TB outbreaks occurred (1).
Although data on such outbreaks are not collected systematically by CDC, the occurrence of nosocomial TB is believed to have declined sharply since the issuance and widespread implementation of infection-control guidelines in 1994 (2--4).
During April 2--September 12, 2002, TB was diagnosed in six persons who either had been patients or had worked in a large community hospital (hospital A) in March or early April.
This report describes the results of an investigation of the presumed source patient, who had spent 3 weeks on two general medical wards of hospital A before being placed in respiratory isolation and having TB diagnosed on April 2.
To prevent transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, hospital staff should remain vigilant to identify and treat suspected TB cases promptly.
In July 2002, after five patients at hospital A had been diagnosed with TB, the District of Columbia Department of Health requested epidemiologic assistance from CDC.
An investigative team, consisting of CDC staff, the local health department TB-control program, and the infection-control department of hospital A was formed.
The team conducted a contact and case-finding investigation by reviewing hospital and health department records of all six patients.
Three patients were interviewed, including the index patient.
An expanded contact investigation extended to persons possibly exposed to patients with TB disease at the hospital.
Hospital staff contacts who were determined from the index patient's medical record and from hospital employment records were categorized as 1) direct-care providers, 2) workers assigned to the same ward but not involved in the patient's medical care, or 3) other workers who spent time on the medical ward but were not assigned there.
tuberculosis isolates from all six patients were sent to CDC for genotyping.
Index Patient The index patient was a man aged 42 years with schizophrenia and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
The mental illness contributed to patient-care problems because of inability of the patient to understand questions and follow instructions.
He was admitted twice to a different hospital (hospital B) in late February 2002 for fever and nonproductive cough.
His chest radiographs were interpreted as normal.
He produced one sputum specimen, which was negative for acid-fast bacilli (AFB), before leaving the hospital against medical advice.
In early March, he was admitted to hospital A with similar symptoms, treated with intravenous vancomycin for a presumed central line infection, and released after a 6-day hospital stay.
Three days later, he returned to the hospital.
His CD4 T-lymphocyte count was 30 cells/µL.
A chest radiograph revealed hilar adenopathy, and a computerized tomography scan of the chest revealed a questionable left upper lobe infiltrate thought to represent pneumonia; ceftriaxone was administered.
On April 2, the hospital staff learned that a stool culture obtained during the patient's first admission had grown M.
tuberculosis.
The patient was placed in isolation that day.
Three subsequent sputum specimens were 4+ AFB smear-positive, indicative of a high degree of infectiousness, and a contact investigation was initiated.
The index patient was ambulatory and was in contact with several patients and medical personnel.
This contact continued even after the patient was placed in isolation.
Secondary Patients During June 21--September 12, five secondary TB patients were identified.
Four were men aged 35--49 years who had been hospitalized in different rooms on the same medical ward as the index patient.
The fifth secondary patient was a phlebotomist on the same medical ward as the index patient.
She had been evaluated in May and found to have a TST of 50 mm induration.
She was asymptomatic at that time.
Because of slightly elevated serum liver enzyme concentrations, she was not treated for LTBI and was monitored only for development of symptoms.
In September, she had TB diagnosed.
All five secondary patients received diagnoses 3--6 months after exposure to the index patient (Figure).
tuberculosis isolates from all six patients had matching genotypes by three methods (i.e., identical spoligotyping, mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units, and a 6-band pattern on restriction fragment-length polymorphism).
All strains were susceptible to isoniazid and rifampin.
Contact Investigation Of the 1,045 contacts who were identified as having been exposed to the index patient during March 9--April 2 at hospital A, 261 (25%) were patients, and 784 (75%) were staff.
All staff contacts with positive TST reactions were evaluated for disease by symptom assessment and chest radiograph.
Among the 784 staff members, 106 (14%) provided direct care to the index patient, 49 (6%) were ward-based staff, and 629 (80%) were other staff who had spent some time on the ward during the admissions of the index patient.
Of 261 patient-contacts, 173 (66%) received TSTs, and 39 (23%) had a positive reaction.
In addition, 495 (63%) of 784 staff members were evaluated with TSTs; 56 staff members tested positive, of whom 21 (38%) were direct-care providers, six (11%) were ward-based staff, and 29 (52%) were other staff (Table).
During the investigation, hospital A engineers and the infection-control staff determined that the index patient's room met specifications for an airborne infection isolation room.
Infection-control staff at hospital B also were notified about the index patient so that a contact investigation could be initiated there.
Contacts with HIV and a negative TST were recommended for therapy with isoniazid for 9 months (1).
Staff contacts who did not know their HIV status were offered voluntary HIV counseling and testing.
Foreign-born persons and contacts with a previous positive TST reaction were offered treatment if they had no past history of treatment.
Reported by: MA Tipple, MD, W Heirendt, Virginia Dept of Health.
B Metchock, DrPH, K Ijaz, MD, PD McElroy, PhD, Div of TB Elimination, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention; AM Andre, MD, EIS Officer, CDC.
Editorial Note: This report describes recent nosocomial transmission of M.
tuberculosis in a community hospital.
The index patient spent 3 weeks hospitalized with unrecognized TB, possibly masked by HIV infection.
AIDS patients can have atypical presentations of TB disease resulting in diagnostic delays (6).
Because TB was not initially a diagnostic consideration, the patient was not placed immediately in respiratory isolation.
Although the incidence of TB continues to decline (7), heightened awareness and vigilance is required by hospital staff to identify and treat persons with suspected TB promptly.
Patients with suspected TB should be placed in respiratory isolation until infectious TB is ruled out.
When the patient is transported for medical procedures that cannot be performed in the isolation room, the patient should wear a surgical mask.
Hospital infection-control programs are encouraged to develop protocols and implement administrative procedures for HIV-infected patients with pulmonary symptoms suggestive of TB.
Finally, local TB-control programs can assist hospital infection-control staff in investigating community contacts of persons hospitalized with TB (2).
References Pearson ML, Jereb JA, Frieden TR, et al.
Nosocomial transmission of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Ann Intern Med 1992;117:191--6.
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health-care facilities, 1994.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
Bock NN, Sotir MJ, Parrott PL, Blumberg HM.
Nosocomial tuberculosis exposure in an outpatient setting: evaluation of patients exposed to healthcare providers with tuberculosis.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1999;20:421--5.
Menzies D, Fanning A, Yuan L, Fitzgerald M.
Tuberculosis among health care workers.
N Engl J Med 1995;332:92--8.
Targeted tuberculin skin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Kenyon T, Ridzon R, Luskin-Hawk R, et al.
A nosocomial outbreak of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Ann Intern Med 1997;127:32--6.
Trends in tuberculosis---United States, 1998--2003.
MMWR 2004;53:209--14.
Table Return to top.
Figure Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports December 16, 2005 / 54(RR15);43-47 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Appendix B Recommendations for the Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious Tuberculosis (TB) Decision to Initiate a Contact Investigation The features of the TB case under investigation inform decisions about whether to perform a contact investigation (see Figure 1).
An investigation (i.e., seeking and evaluating contacts) is recommended for the following forms of suspected or confirmed TB because they are likely to be infectious: pulmonary, laryngeal, or pleural TB disease with 1) pulmonary cavities, 2) respiratory specimens that have acid-fast bacilli (AFB) on microscopy, or 3) both.
As time and resources permit and as recommended investigations are completed successfully, other pulmonary TB cases may be investigated if they are confirmed by culture of respiratory secretions.
Pulmonary TB cases without positive mycobacteriology results should not be investigated unless circumstances indicate otherwise (e.g., if mycobacteriologic results are absent because of an error or if a priori information raises suspicion that contacts have been infected).
The only forms of purely extrapulmonary TB (i.e., cases without pulmonary disease) that should be investigated are laryngeal or pleural disease.
For other forms, source-case investigations can be considered under special circumstances (see Source-Case Investigations).
Investigating the Index Patient and Sites of Transmission Written policies and procedures for these tasks improve uniformity and efficiency.
Tasks should be assigned to trained and experienced public health workers.
Interviews should be in the index patient's primary language and be conducted by persons fluent in that language or in conjunction with fluent interpreters.
For patients who have died or who are inaccessible, alternative sources of information regarding contacts should be sought.
The contact list and priority assignments (see Assigning Priorities to Contacts) should be written into an investigative plan.
Information regarding the index patient should be reassessed at least weekly until drug-susceptibility results are available for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolate, for 2 months after notification, or until infectiousness has diminished, whichever is longer.
At 1--2 weeks after the first interview, the index patient should be interviewed again as necessary for clarification and additional information.
Assigning Priorities to Contacts Priorities for ranking contacts for investigation are set on the basis of the characteristics of the index patient, the duration and circumstances of exposure, and the vulnerability or susceptibility of the contact to disease progression from M.
tuberculosis infection.
The optimal exposure cut-off durations for assigning priorities to contacts have not been determined because available data lack this level of precision.
The National Tuberculosis Controllers Association work group did not reach consensus on cut-off durations.
On the basis of local experience and adjusting for resource limitations, public health officials should set local standards for the durations of exposure that define high, medium, and low priority.
Diagnostic and Public Health Evaluation of Contacts General Health departments are responsible for ensuring that TB contacts are medically evaluated and treated.
Communicable disease regulations or laws in certain jurisdictions apply to contacts who are not responsive to requests to be examined.
The least restrictive means should be applied first.
Each high- and medium-priority contact should be evaluated medically to determine whether TB disease and latent infection with M.
tuberculosis are present or absent.
The same diagnostic methods are recommended for all contacts except when they have medical or constitutional conditions making TB more likely or more difficult to diagnose.
A contact's country of origin and Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination status are not included in algorithms for diagnosis or treatment.
Voluntary HIV Counseling, Testing, and Referral Inform all contacts that HIV infection is the greatest known risk factor for TB disease progressing from M.
tuberculosis infection, and ask whether they have been tested for HIV infection.
Offer voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and referral to TB contacts who do not know their HIV infection status.
Collaboration with HIV-AIDS programs is recommended for establishing systems that are convenient and flexible for patients.
Voluntary HIV counseling, testing, and referral are recommended for contacts of HIV-infected infectious TB patients.
Tuberculin Skin Testing A tuberculin skin test (TST) is recommended for all contacts who do not have a documented prior positive test result or documented prior TB disease.
The skin test can be administered at the time of the initial assessment.
A two-step TST as defined for infection control surveillance is not recommended for contact investigations.
Evaluation of HIV-infected or Other Immunocompromised Contacts HIV-infected or other immunocompromised contacts are high-priority contacts.
In addition to a medical history, examination, and a TST, a chest radiograph is recommended for all these contacts.
Sputum collection for AFB microscopy and culture is recommended if the contact has symptoms consistent with TB disease or if the chest radiograph has abnormalities that could be caused by TB.
Contacts who have symptoms consistent with TB also should be medically evaluated, including a chest radiograph, to rule out TB, regardless of the results of the skin test, history of a prior positive result, or history of prior TB disease.
For low-priority contacts, the initial skin test may be delayed until 8--10 weeks after the most recent exposure if the contact does not have symptoms suggestive of TB disease.
Treatment for Contacts with M.
tuberculosis Infection Treating contacts who have latent M.
tuberculosis infection through completion is a health department responsibility to prevent communicable diseases.
High- and medium-priority contacts with positive TSTs who come from countries with prevalent TB should be treated, regardless of whether they have had routine BCG vaccination.
Treatment for latent infection should be offered to all contacts who have a positive tuberculin skin test result, after active TB is excluded.
The emphasis of the program should be on completing treatment in high- and medium-priority contacts.
If a second skin test result 8--10 weeks after the end of exposure is negative, treatment can be stopped.
A full course of treatment for presumptive M.
The decision to treat contacts who have documentation of a previous positive skin test result or TB disease should be made on an individual basis.
Treatment is recommended for HIV-infected contacts in this category, even if infection has been treated previously.
Rifampin treatment is recommended for contacts who, after TB disease has been excluded, have infection presumed to be isoniazid (INH)-resistant, rifampin-susceptible M.
tuberculosis after exposure to an index patient with such an isolate.
Expert consultation is recommended for selecting treatment for a latent infection with presumed INH- and rifampin-resistant M.
tuberculosis.
Contacts with such an infection should be monitored with periodic examination for at least 2 years.
Directly observed therapy (DOT) for latent infection is preferred over self supervised.
DOT preference should be assigned to these groups, in this general order: --- confirmed or suspected TB disease; --- latent M.
tuberculosis infection in contacts who have HIV infection or other conditions that limit immune response to TB; --- latent M.
tuberculosis infection in contacts with documented change in tuberculin sensitivity, from a negative to a positive result; and --- latent M.
tuberculosis infection in contacts who might not complete treatment because of social or behavioral impediments (e.g., alcohol addiction, chronic mental illness, injection-drug use, unstable housing, unemployment).
Monitoring for adherence and adverse effects by home visits, pill counts, or clinic appointments monthly or more often is recommended for contacts on self-administered treatment.
Use of enablers and incentives and establishment of a positive rapport with contacts who are taking treatment are recommended for enhancing adherence.
When to Expand a Contact Investigation Inclusion of lower-priority contacts generally is not recommended unless objectives for high- and medium-priority contacts are being met.
After reviewing the results from the investigation to date (i.e., for high- and medium-priority contacts), select the additional contacts by extrapolating the risks for infection as shown by the data.
When results from an investigation indicate that it should be expanded, but resources are insufficient, seeking assistance from the next higher public-health administrative level is recommended.
Communicating Through the Media Anticipatory media communication (e.g., with a press release) for large or highly visible TB contact investigations is recommended to capitalize on the opportunity for constructive public communications.
Coordination of media communications, both within the health department and with collaborating partners outside the health department, improves the clarity and consistency of media messages.
For efficiency, use of media message templates for contact investigations is recommended.
Data Management and Evaluation of Contact Investigations Collection of specific data elements on index patients and their contacts is recommended.
The data elements should permit calculation of program performance indices.
Data should be collected on standardized (paper or electronic) forms.
Data definitions and formats for use by persons who collect, use, and interpret contact investigation data are recommended.
Whenever feasible, data definitions and formats should be standard among jurisdictions.
Electronic data storage is recommended for quick analysis of interim results.
Policies for data management and storage are recommended, with assignment of responsibilities.
Training and policies for data accuracy, completeness, and security are recommended.
Part of a staff-person's time should be dedicated to reviewing and monitoring contact investigation data.
Periodic summarization and review of data are recommended during a particular contact investigation and overall.
Program evaluation for contact investigation activities, at least annually, is recommended.
It is an integral part of TB program responsibility.
Beyond standard data elements shown in these guidelines, specific additional elements can contribute to local program management.
Confidentiality and Consent in Contact Investigations Specific policies for release of confidential information related to contact investigations are recommended.
These policies should be consistent with the Privacy Rule of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and Sections 306 and 308(d) of the Public Health Service Act and be developed in consultation from health department legal counsel.
These policies typically include instructions for obtaining consents and for breaking confidentiality when required for public health as authorized by laws.
Patient confidentiality is a core element integrated with all activities in contact investigations, and training in its laws and practice is recommended for all personnel who participate.
Discussion with the index patient and contacts regarding their confidentiality beliefs and concerns is recommended.
TB control program staff should explain to the index patient the measures that will be taken to maintain confidentiality.
Preparations for protecting confidentiality are recommended for each site visit during an investigation.
Anticipatory discussions with any patients who might be affected contribute to the preparations.
Confidentiality applies to all private information and medical conditions in addition to TB.
Staffing and Training for Contact Investigations Certain functions in contact investigations require state licensure.
Delineation of these functions is recommended for preparing personnel position descriptions.
Specialized functions and related skills are needed during contact investigations; they might be provided by sources outside of the health department (Box 3).
Preparatory training and detailed on-the-job supervision as each function is encountered by new health department personnel establish the basis for expertise.
Direct observation by experienced personnel and opportunities for practicing skills are essential when any personnel assume new functions for contact investigations.
Clerical personnel, receptionists, and managers who help with contact investigations need to understand the overall purpose and methods of contact investigations.
When sources outside the health department serve essential functions in a contact investigation, the health department is responsible for assessing whether the skills are sufficient and offering training so that the functions are met correctly.
Contact Investigations in Special Circumstances A cluster of TB cases (i.e., a presumed outbreak) indicates potential lapses in TB control which should be investigated along with the outbreak.
Assistance should be requested if the scope of the investigation exceeds local capacity or disrupts key activities of TB control.
When secondary TB cases are discovered unexpectedly (e.g., outside of a contact investigation), this indicates a potential outbreak.
Review of the investigative strategy is recommended.
When contact investigations include congregate settings, officials or administrators at the setting should be enlisted as collaborators.
Access to employee and occupancy rosters should be sought.
Sensitivities and needs of the setting and its populace should be accommodated to the extent permitted by good public health practice.
When few contacts are listed because information cannot be obtained from an index TB patient, alternative or proxy methods, such as interviews in the extended social network, are recommended.
Contact investigations for multidrug-resistant TB do not require a change in procedures, but the reasons for the drug resistance should be explored.
Interjurisdictional contact investigations should be planned collaboratively from the inception.
Assistance in coordinating such investigation should be sought from the next higher public-health administrative level.
Unusual exposures to M.
tuberculosis-complex, such as laboratory accidents or tuberculous animals, should be investigated on site, and contacts should be selected in accordance with the event, in consultation with subject-matter experts.
Source-Case Investigations Source-case investigations are not recommended unless investigations of infectious cases have been successfully completed and program objectives for investigating contagious patients and treating their infected contacts are being met.
Data on source-case investigations should be reviewed for determining the value of these investigations in the local context.
Searching for a source of unexplained latent M.
Other Topics Cultural Competency Systems for providing culturally and linguistically acceptable care during contact investigations are recommended.
Training in cultural and linguistic sensitivity is recommended for personnel who conduct contact investigations.
Social Network Analysis The methods of social network analysis are recommended for further research.
However, certain concepts (e.g., setting-based investigations) are also applicable to current efforts.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly August 18, 2000 / 49(32);737 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Erratum: Vol.
30 An error was made in the article "Missed Opportunities for Prevention of Tuberculosis Among Persons With HIV Infection --- Selected Locations, United States, 1996--1997," in the first paragraph on page 685.
It should read, "The risk for active TB is increased greatly if the close contact is infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (1,2)." Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports December 10, 1999 /48(RR13);29-31 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Appendix: Revised Surveillance Case Definition for HIV Infection* This revised definition of HIV infection, which applies to any HIV (e.g., HIV-1 or HIV-2), is intended for public health surveillance only.
It incorporates the reporting criteria for HIV infection and AIDS into a single case definition.
The revised criteria for HIV infection update the definition of HIV infection implemented in 1993 (18); the revised HIV criteria apply to AIDS-defining conditions for adults (18) and children (17,19), which require laboratory evidence of HIV.
This definition is not presented as a guide to clinical diagnosis or for other uses (17,18).
OR Clinical or Other Criteria (if the above definitive or presumptive laboratory criteria are not met) Determined by a physician to be "not infected", and a physician has noted the results of the preceding HIV diagnostic tests in the medical record AND NO other laboratory or clinical evidence of HIV infection (i.e., has not had any positive virologic tests, if performed, and has not had an AIDS-defining condition) A child aged less than 18 months born to an HIV-infected mother will be categorized as having perinatal exposure to HIV infection if the child does not meet the criteria for HIV infection (II) or the criteria for "not infected with HIV" (III).
* Draft revised surveillance criteria for HIV infection were approved and recommended by the membership of the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) at the 1998 annual meeting (11).
Draft versions of these criteria were previously reviewed by state HIV/AIDS surveillance staffs, CDC, CSTE, and laboratory experts.
In addition, the pediatric criteria were reviewed by an expert panel of consultants.
Scott, and P.
CDC staff: J.
Bertolli, K.
Dominguez, M.
Kalish, M.L.
Lindegren, M.
Schable, R.J.
Simonds, and J.
*** In adults, adolescents, and children infected by other than perinatal exposure, plasma viral RNA nucleic acid tests should NOT be used in lieu of licensed HIV screening tests (e.g., repeatedly reactive enzyme immunoassay).
In addition, a negative (i.e., undetectable) plasma HIV-1 RNA test result does not rule out the diagnosis of HIV infection.
**** HIV nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) detection tests are the virologic methods of choice to exclude infection in children aged less than 18 months.
Although HIV culture can be used for this purpose, it is more complex and expensive to perform and is less well standardized than nucleic acid detection tests.
The use of p24 antigen testing to exclude infection in children aged less than 18 months is not recommended because of its lack of sensitivity.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Revised Surveillance Case Definition for HIV Infection — United States, 2014 Recommendations and Reports April 11, 2014 / 63(RR03);1-10 Prepared by Richard M.
Selik, MD1 Eve D.
Mokotoff, MPH2 Bernard Branson, MD1 S.
Michele Owen, PhD1 Suzanne Whitmore, DrPH1 H.
Irene Hall, PhD1 1Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC 2HIV/STD/VH/TB Epidemiology Section, Michigan Department of Community Health Corresponding author: Richard M.
Selik, MD, Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Telephone: 404-639-4495; E-mail: rms1@cdc.gov.
The revisions were made to address multiple issues, the most important of which was the need to adapt to recent changes in diagnostic criteria.
Laboratory criteria for defining a confirmed case now accommodate new multitest algorithms, including criteria for differentiating between HIV-1 and HIV-2 infection and for recognizing early HIV infection.
A confirmed case can be classified in one of five HIV infection stages (0, 1, 2, 3, or unknown); early infection, recognized by a negative HIV test within 6 months of HIV diagnosis, is classified as stage 0, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is classified as stage 3.
Criteria for stage 3 have been simplified by eliminating the need to differentiate between definitive and presumptive diagnoses of opportunistic illnesses.
Clinical (nonlaboratory) criteria for defining a case for surveillance purposes have been made more practical by eliminating the requirement for information about laboratory tests.
The surveillance case definition is intended primarily for monitoring the HIV infection burden and planning for prevention and care on a population level, not as a basis for clinical decisions for individual patients.
CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists recommend that all states and territories conduct case surveillance of HIV infection using this revised surveillance case definition.
Introduction Since the first cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were reported in the United States in 1981, surveillance case definitions for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (the cause of AIDS) and AIDS have undergone several revisions to respond to diagnostic advances (1–5).
This document updates the surveillance case definitions published in 2008 (5).
It addresses multiple issues, the most important of which was the need to adapt to recent changes in diagnostic criteria.
Other needs that prompted the revision included 1) recognition of early HIV infection, 2) differentiation between HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections, 3) consolidation of staging systems for adults/adolescents and children, 4) simplification of criteria for opportunistic illnesses indicative of AIDS, and 5) revision of criteria for reporting diagnoses without laboratory evidence.
Summary of Revisions to Surveillance Case Definition The most important update is revision of the laboratory criteria for a confirmed case, which addresses the development of new diagnostic testing algorithms that do not use the Western blot or immunofluorescence HIV antibody assays.
During 2009–2011, CDC and the Association of Public Health Laboratories proposed new diagnostic algorithms (6,7), and in June 2011 the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) published updated laboratory testing procedures for diagnosis of HIV infection (8).
The 2008 surveillance case definition was not clearly consistent with the new algorithms because it specified that a test used for confirmation must be a "supplemental HIV antibody test (e.g., Western blot or indirect immunofluorescence assay test)" (5).
This revised surveillance case definition explicitly allows these new testing algorithms.
Some new multitest algorithms lead to a conclusion that laboratories might classify as a "presumptive positive" result.
Persons with a presumptive positive test result are expected to receive subsequent tests, such as a quantitative viral load, to confirm their HIV diagnosis, but results of those tests might not be immediately available to surveillance programs.
To avoid unnecessary complexity for surveillance, the revised surveillance case definition, like the earlier definition, does not make a distinction between presumptive and definitive diagnoses.
If subsequent test results reveal that the person is not infected, the case and previous test results should be deleted from the surveillance database.
Another important change is the addition of "stage 0" based on a sequence of negative and positive test results indicative of early HIV infection.
This addition takes advantage of tests incorporated in the new algorithms that are more sensitive during early infection than previously used tests, and that together with a less sensitive antibody test, yield a combination of positive and negative results enabling diagnosis of acute (primary) HIV infection, which occurs before the antibody response has fully developed.
The addition of stage 0 allows for routine monitoring of the number of cases diagnosed within several months after infection, which includes the most highly infectious period when viral loads are extremely high and intervention might be most effective in preventing further transmission.
The definition of stage 0 also will reduce confusion between acute HIV infection (part of stage 0), when CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts can be transiently depressed, and stage 3 (AIDS), an advanced stage of HIV infection when CD4+ T-lymphocyte values are usually persistently depressed (9).
The revised case definition adds other criteria and eliminates several criteria that were impractical or difficult to implement uniformly across all states and territories.
Specifically, the revised case definition: Adds specific criteria for defining a case of HIV-2, which were not included in the 2008 case definition.
The new definition incorporates criteria for HIV-2 infection used in a report of surveillance for HIV-2 infection (10) and included in one of the new CLSI testing algorithms (8).
Eliminates the requirement to indicate if opportunistic illnesses (AIDS-defining conditions) indicative of stage 3 (AIDS) were diagnosed by "definitive" or "presumptive" methods.
This requirement has been impractical to implement because the criteria to distinguish between "definitive" and "presumptive" methods were not interpreted in a standard, uniform way by state and local surveillance programs.
Classifies stages 1–3 of HIV infection on the basis of the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count unless persons have had a stage-3–defining opportunistic illness.
The CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage is used only when the corresponding CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is unknown.
This avoids overestimating the proportion of cases in stage 3, which occured when the stage was based on whichever CD4+ T-lymphocyte test result (count or percentage) indicated the more advanced stage.
Clinical evidence suggests the percentage has little effect on prognosis after adjusting for the count (11,12).
Removes the requirement that a "physician-documented" diagnosis must be based on laboratory evidence.
This revision allows clinical evidence to be sufficient to define a case when it is impractical to retrieve laboratory test information regarding the initial diagnosis.
The new definition also clarifies that the date of a physician-documented diagnosis is the diagnosis date recorded in a medical record note, rather than the date that the physician wrote the note.
Removes lymphoid interstitial pneumonia (pulmonary lymphoid hyperplasia) from the list of opportunistic illnesses indicative of stage 3 in children because this illness is associated with moderate rather than severe immunodeficiency (4).
This change was recommended in a position statement approved at the June 2009 annual meeting of the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) (13).
Extends the use of CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts and percentages for determining the stage of HIV infection to children as well as adults and adolescents, and now determines the stage in children aged 6–12 years the same way as in adults and adolescents.
Scope and Applicability of the Surveillance Case Definition This revised case definition, like the earlier one, is intended primarily for public health surveillance of HIV infection on a population level.
Early diagnosis and viral suppression facilitate prevention of HIV transmission, morbidity, and mortality.
This case definition's staging system allows for health departments to evaluate prevention and care, which can be measured by analyzing cases by their stage at diagnosis and how rapidly they progress to more advanced stages.
For various reasons, it would be inappropriate for clinicians to use the surveillance staging system as a guide to manage patients.
Methods The revised case definition was developed in several stages.
First, in 2010, HIV surveillance experts at CDC convened six work groups that included both CDC and external subject matter experts, including health-care providers, surveillance health department staff, and representatives from academic institutions and public health and commercial laboratories.
The names of work group members are listed at the end of this report.
The six topic areas were new HIV testing algorithms, acute HIV infection, HIV-2 infection, opportunistic illnesses, pediatric HIV infection, and physician-documented diagnosis.
Each work group examined research and program information about the topic areas and elicited experience and expert opinion from federal, state, and local HIV surveillance programs; clinicians who diagnose HIV infection; and laboratories that report HIV test results.
Second, all work groups presented a summary of their reports at a consultation convened by CDC in February 2012.
The consultation included additional experts in HIV surveillance, laboratory testing, and clinical care, including members of CSTE.
Third, most of the recommendations from the consultation were incorporated in a position statement developed in collaboration with CDC that was approved at the June 2012 annual meeting of CSTE (18).
The revisions of the surveillance case definition in this document are based largely on that position statement.
Finally, this document underwent peer review (described at  ) by health-care professionals in compliance with the Office of Management and Budget requirements for the dissemination of influential scientific information.
Revised Surveillance Case Definition Section 1: Criteria for a Confirmed Case Criteria for a confirmed case can be met by either laboratory evidence or clinical evidence, as described below.
Laboratory evidence is preferred over clinical evidence.
The initial HIV antibody or antigen/antibody test and the supplemental HIV test that is used to verify the result from the initial test can be of any type used as an aid to diagnose HIV infection.
For surveillance purposes, supplemental tests can include some not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for diagnosis (e.g., HIV-1 viral load test, HIV-2 Western blot/immunoblot antibody test, and HIV-2 NAT).
However, the initial and supplemental tests must be "orthogonal" (i.e., have different antigenic constituents or use different principles) to minimize the possibility of concurrent nonspecific reactivity.
Because the antigenic constituents and test principles are proprietary information that might not be publicly available for some tests, tests will be assumed to be orthogonal if they are of different types.
For example: — One test is a combination antigen/antibody test and the other an antibody-only test.
— One test is an antibody test and the other a NAT.
— One test is able to differentiate between HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and the other is not.
Tests also will be assumed to be orthogonal if they are of the same type (e.g., two conventional immunoassays) but made by different manufacturers.
The type of HIV antibody test that verifies the initial test might be one formerly used only as an initial test (e.g., conventional or rapid immunoassay, HIV-1/2 type-differentiating immunoassay), or it might be one traditionally used as a supplemental test for confirmation (e.g., Western blot, immunofluorescence assay).
A positive result of a multitest HIV antibody algorithm from which only the final result was reported, including a single positive result on a test used only as a supplemental test (e.g., HIV Western blot, immunofluorescence assay) or on a test that might be used as either an initial test or a supplemental test (e.g., HIV-1/2 type-differentiating rapid antibody immunoassay) when it might reasonably be assumed to have been used as a supplemental test (e.g., because the algorithm customarily used by the reporting laboratory is known).
A positive result or report of a detectable quantity (i.e., within the established limits of the laboratory test) from any of the following HIV virologic (i.e., nonantibody) tests: — Qualitative HIV NAT (DNA or RNA) — Quantitative HIV NAT (viral load assay) — HIV-1 p24 antigen test — HIV isolation (viral culture) or — HIV nucleotide sequence (genotype).
1.1.2: Clinical (Nonlaboratory) Evidence Clinical criteria for a confirmed case (i.e., a "physician-documented" diagnosis for which the surveillance staff have not found sufficient laboratory evidence described above) are met by the combination of: A note in a medical record by a physician or other qualified medical-care provider that states that the patient has HIV infection, and One or both of the following: — The laboratory criteria for a case were met based on tests done after the physician's note was written (validating the note retrospectively).
— Presumptive evidence of HIV infection (e.g., receipt of HIV antiretroviral therapy or prophylaxis for an opportunistic infection), an otherwise unexplained low CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, or an otherwise unexplained diagnosis of an opportunistic illness (Appendix).
The test date (at least the month and year) is known.
One or both of the following: — Confirmation of the first positive result by another positive result on one of the above virologic tests from a specimen obtained on a different date or — No subsequent negative result on an HIV antibody test, and no subsequent negative result on an HIV NAT before age 18 months.
1.2.2: Clinical Evidence The same criteria as in section 1.1.2 or All three of the following alternative criteria: — Evidence of perinatal exposure to HIV infection before age 18 months A mother with documented HIV infection or A confirmed positive test for HIV antibody (e.g., a positive initial antibody test or antigen/antibody test, confirmed by a supplemental antibody test) and a mother whose infection status is unknown or undocumented.
— Diagnosis of an opportunistic illness indicative of stage 3 (Appendix).
— No subsequent negative result on an HIV antibody test.
1.3: Definition for Date of Diagnosis of a Confirmed Case for all Ages 1.3.1: Laboratory Criteria If the diagnosis is based on laboratory evidence, the diagnosis date is defined as the earliest date on which the specimen was obtained for a positive HIV test result.
1.3.2: Clinical Criteria If the diagnosis was based on clinical evidence ("physician-documented") rather than laboratory evidence, the diagnosis date is defined as the date (at least the year) of diagnosis reported in the content of the medical record.
If the diagnosis date was not reported in the note, the date when the note was written can be used as a proxy.
Section 2: Criteria for Classifying the HIV Type as HIV-2 All HIV infections in the United States should be assumed to be type 1 (HIV-1) unless laboratory test results are sufficient to classify the infection as type 2 (HIV-2), dual HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections, or undifferentiated HIV infection, as described below.
Clinical or epidemiologic evidence might lead to laboratory testing for HIV-2 but is insufficient for classifying the HIV type as HIV-2.
Positive HIV-2 Western blot (WB) (or immunoblot or line assay) result and negative or indeterminate HIV-1 WB result.
Positive qualitative HIV-2 NAT result.
Detectable quantitative HIV-2 NAT (viral load).
Laboratory results interpreted as consistent with HIV-2 infection by a laboratory expert experienced in differentiating HIV-2 from HIV-1 if laboratory evidence for HIV-2 is ambiguous.
Dual infection with HIV-1 and HIV-2 The HIV type is classified as "dual" infection (both HIV-1 and HIV-2) if both an HIV-1 NAT and an HIV-2 NAT are positive.
Undifferentiated HIV type The HIV type is classified as "undifferentiated" if there is no positive or detectable result from an HIV-1 NAT and a laboratory expert cannot resolve ambiguous evidence for HIV-2, such as: HIV-2 WB is positive and HIV-1 WB is HIV positive or HIV-1/HIV-2 type-differentiating antibody test result interpretation is "undifferentiated" (positive for both HIV-1 and HIV-2).
The HIV-1 NAT routinely used to diagnose HIV-1 infection in children of this age is likely to be negative in an HIV-2-infected child because it is insensitive to HIV-2.
A positive HIV-2 NAT result would satisfy the criteria for a case.
Otherwise, the diagnosis of HIV-2 infection in a child will need to wait until the child is aged 18 months, when it can be based on antibody test results.
3.1.1: Laboratory Evidence Definitively Uninfected No positive HIV NAT (RNA or DNA) and At least one of the following criteria: — At least two negative HIV NATs from specimens obtained on different dates, both of which were at age ≥1 month and one of which was at age ≥4 months.
— At least two negative HIV antibody tests from specimens obtained on different dates at age ≥6 months.
Presumptively Uninfected Criteria for definitively uninfected with HIV are not met At least one of the following four laboratory criteria are met: — At least two negative NATs from specimens obtained on different dates, both of which were at age ≥2 weeks and one of which was at age ≥4 weeks.
— One negative NAT (RNA or DNA) from a specimen obtained at age ≥8 weeks.
— One negative HIV antibody test from a specimen obtained at age ≥6 months.
— If criteria for HIV infection had initially been met by one positive HIV NAT test then it must have been followed by at least two negative test results from specimens obtained on different dates, one of which is: A NAT test from a specimen obtained at age ≥8 weeks, or An HIV antibody test from a specimen obtained at age ≥6 months.
and No subsequent positive NAT.
3.1.2: Clinical Evidence A note in a medical record by a physician or other qualified medical-care provider states that the patient is not infected with HIV.
Section 4: Criteria for Classifying the Stage of HIV Infection The stages of HIV infection defined in this document are for surveillance staging of disease and might not be appropriate for patient care, clinical research, or other purposes.
A confirmed case that meets the criteria for diagnosis of HIV infection can be classified in one of five HIV infection stages (0, 1, 2, 3, or unknown).
Stage 0 indicates early HIV infection, inferred from a negative or indeterminate HIV test result within 6 months of a confirmed positive result, and these criteria supersede and are independent of the criteria used for later stages.
Stages 1, 2, and 3 are based on the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count.
If the CD4+ count is missing or unknown, the CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage of total lymphocytes can be used to assign the stage.
Cases with no information on CD4+ T-lymphocyte count or percentage are classified as stage unknown.
If a stage-3–defining opportunistic illness has been diagnosed, then the stage is 3 regardless of CD4 T-lymphocyte test results, unless the criteria described below for stage 0 are met.
CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or percentages at the time of diagnosis allow classification of cases by stage at diagnosis.
Subsequent CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or percentages help monitor disease progression and whether the person is receiving on-going care.
The stage characterizes the status of HIV disease at a particular point in time.
Of primary interest to surveillance is the stage at initial diagnosis, but the stage can change in either direction after diagnosis and might be defined with reference to dates of interest such as the most advanced stage recorded through a particular date.
The stages are defined as follows: Stage 0 The criteria for stage 0 consist of a sequence of discordant test results indicative of early HIV infection in which a negative or indeterminate result was within 180 days of a positive result.
The criteria for stage 0 supersede and are independent of the criteria used for other stages.
Stage 0 can be established either: Based on testing history (previous negative/indeterminate test results): a negative or indeterminate HIV test (antibody, combination antigen/antibody, or nucleic acid test) result within 180 days before the first confirmed positive HIV test result of any type.
The first positive test result could be any time before the positive supplemental test result that confirms it or Based on a testing algorithm: a sequence of tests performed as part of a laboratory testing algorithm that demonstrate the presence of HIV-specific viral markers such as p24 antigen or nucleic acid (RNA or DNA) 0–180 days before or after an antibody test that had a negative or indeterminate result.
Examples of algorithms that would fulfill this requirement include: — A positive initial HIV immunoassay result (e.g., antigen/antibody or antibody only) followed by a negative or indeterminate supplemental antibody test result (e.g., HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation assay or Western blot) and a positive NAT result.
All three tests are usually performed as part of the same testing algorithm but time might elapse between tests if additional specimens must be obtained for definitive supplemental testing.
— A negative initial HIV immunoassay result followed by a positive NAT result that might have been done to evaluate the presence of acute HIV infection (19,20).
Classifying a case as stage 0 depends on documenting negative HIV antibody test results in the specific situations described above.
Negative test results from testing algorithms that have concluded that the person is not infected need not be reported to HIV surveillance programs.
Stages 1, 2, 3, and unknown If the criteria for stage 0 are not met, the stage is classified as 1, 2, 3, or unknown, depending on CD4+ T-lymphocyte test results or whether an opportunistic illness was diagnosed (Table).
Infection among children aged 6–12 years is staged with the same criteria as infection among adults and adolescents, including opportunistic illnesses indicative of stage 3 (Appendix) that formerly applied only to adults and adolescents (i.e., pulmonary tuberculosis, recurrent pneumonia, and cervical cancer).
Lymphoid interstitial pneumonia is no longer classified as indicative of stage 3 in children because it is associated with moderate rather than severe immunodeficiency (4).
The diagnosis of any of the opportunistic illnesses, irrespective of diagnostic method used, will meet the criteria for staging, thereby eliminating the requirement in the 2008 case definition for some of them to be "definitively" diagnosed.
References CDC.
Revision of the case definition of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome for national reporting—United States.
MMWR 1985;34:373–5.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36(Suppl No.
1993 revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
1994 Revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children less than 13 years of age.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
MMWR 2008;57(No.
Branson BM.
The future of HIV testing.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2010;55:Suppl 2:S102–5.
Branson BM, Mermin J, Establishing the diagnosis of HIV infection: new tests and a new algorithm for the United States.
J Clin Virol 2011;52 Suppl 1:S3–4.
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute.
Criteria for laboratory testing and diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infection; approved guideline.
CLSI document M53-A.
Wayne, PA: Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute; 2011:1–60.
Tindall B, Hing M, Edwards P, Barnes T, Mackie A, Cooper DA.
Severe clinical manifestations of primary HIV infection.
AIDS 1989;3:747–9.
HIV-2 Infection surveillance—United States, 1987-2009.
MMWR 2011;60:985-8.
Available at 
Gebo KA, Gallant JE, Keruly JC, Moore RD.
Absolute CD4 vs.CD4 percentage for predicting the risk of opportunistic illness in HIV infection.
J Acquir Immun Defic Syndr 2004;36:1028–33.
Boyd K, Dunn DT, Castro H, et al.
HIV Paediatric Prognostic Markers Collaborative Study.
Discordance between CD4 cell count and CD4 cell percentage: implications for when to start antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1 infected children.
AIDS 2010, 24:1213–17.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
CSTE Position Statement 09-ID-01:7.
Available at  .
Thompson MA, Aberg JA, Hoy JF, et al.
Antiretroviral treatment of adult HIV infection: 2012 recommendations of the International Antiviral Society–USA Panel.
JAMA 2012;308:387–402.
Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Section on initiating antiretroviral therapy in treatment-naive patients:E-10.
Available at  .
Panel on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children.
Indications for initiation of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected children: F-7.
Available at  .
PENTA Steering Committee.
PENTA 2009 guidelines for the use of antiretroviral therapy in paediatric HIV-1 infection.
HIV Medicine 2009;10:591–613.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
CSTE Position Statement 12-ID-05.
Available at  .
Shepard CW, Gallagher K, Bodach SD, et al.
Acute HIV infection—New York City, 2008.
MMWR 2009;58:1296–9.
Pilcher CD, Fiscus SA, Nguyen TQ, et al.
Detection of acute infections during HIV testing in North Carolina.
N Engl J Med 2005;352:1873–83.
There are three situations in which the stage is not based on this table: 1) if the criteria for stage 0 are met, the stage is 0 regardless of criteria for other stages (CD4 T-lymphocyte test results and opportunistic illness diagnoses); 2) if the criteria for stage 0 are not met and a stage-3-defining opportunistic illness has been diagnosed (Appendix), then the stage is 3 regardless of CD4 T-lymphocyte test results; or 3) if the criteria for stage 0 are not met and information on the above criteria for other stages is missing, then the stage is classified as unknown.
Consultation Participants and Work Group Members CDC Consultation on Revision of the HIV Surveillance Case Definition, February 2012 External Consultants: Monica Alonso, MD, Pan American Health Organization, Washington, DC; Bridget Anderson, PhD, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; John Barnhart, MPH, North Carolina Division of Public Health, Raleigh, North Carolina; Nanette Benbow, MAS, Chicago Department of Public Health, Chicago, Illinois; Kathleen Brady, MD, Philadelphia Department of Public Health, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Rana Chakraborty, MD, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Robert Coombs, MD, University of Washington, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, Washington; Maria Courogen, MPH, Washington State Department of Health, Olympia, Washington; Carlos Del Rio, MD, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia; Rebecca T.
Filipowicz, MPH, Texas Department of State Health Services, Austin, Texas; Colin Flynn, ScM, Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Baltimore, Maryland; Douglas M.
Frye, MD, Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, Los Angeles, California; Kelly A.
Gebo, MD, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland; Jane Getchell, DrPH, Association of Public Health Laboratories, Silver Spring, Maryland; J.
Jerry Gibson, MD, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Columbia, South Carolina; Angelique B.
Griffin, MS, District of Columbia Department of Health, Washington, DC; Rebecca Grigg, PhD, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Jessica Halverson, MPH, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario; Jerry Harms, MPH, Iowa Department of Public Health, Des Moines, Iowa; Jim Kent, MS, Public Health-Seattle & King County, Seattle, Washington; Rod Lambert, MPH, Georgia Department of Community Health, Atlanta, Georgia; Rodger D.
MacArthur, MD, Wayne State University, School of Medicine, Detroit, Michigan; William A.
Meyer III, PhD, Quest Diagnostics, Baltimore, Maryland; Eve Mokotoff, MPH, Michigan Department of Community Health, Detroit, Michigan; Godwin Obiri, DrPH, Pennsylvania Department of Health, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Emily Outten, Delaware Public Health Laboratory, Smyrna, Delaware; Mark Pandori, PhD, San Francisco Department of Public Health Laboratory, San Francisco, California; Maree Kay Parisi, San Francisco Department of Public Health, San Francisco, California; Monica M.
Parker, PhD, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Sindy Paul, MD, New Jersey Department of Health & Senior Services, Trenton, New Jersey; Sheila Peel, PhD, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Rockville, Maryland; Christopher Pilcher, MD, UCSF School of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California; Sandy Schwarcz, MD, University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California; Steven Starr, California Department of Health, Sacramento, California; Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Barbara Werner, PhD, Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Marcia Wolverton, MPH, Houston Department of Health and Human Services, Houston, Texas.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; John T.
Brooks, MD; Hollie Clark, MPH; Kenneth Dominguez, MD; Steven Ethridge, MT; Kristen Mahle Gray, MPH; H.
Irene Hall, PhD; James Heffelfinger, MD; M.
Patricia Joyce, MD; Steven McDougal, MD; Roque Miramontes, MPH; Janet K.
Nicholson, MD; S.
Michele Owen, PhD; Pragna Patel, MD; Adria Prosser, PhD; Richard M.
Selik, MD; R.
Luke Shouse, MD; Allan Taylor, MD; Suzanne Whitmore, DrPH.
New HIV Testing Algorithms Preconsultation Work Group External Members: Rashad Arcement, MSPH, Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, New Orleans, Louisiana; Berry Bennett, MPH, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Barbara Bolden, PhD, New Jersey Department of Health, Trenton, New Jersey; Daniel E.
Gordon, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Angelique B.
Griffin, MS, District of Columbia Department of Health, Washington, DC; Charulata Jain Sabharwal, MD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Abdel Ibrahim, PhD, New Jersey Department of Health, Trenton, New Jersey; Norman Markowitz, MD, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan; Eugene G.
Martin, PhD, UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Somerset, New Jersey; Tiffany West Ojo, MSPH, District of Columbia Department of Health, Washington, DC; William R.
Oleszko, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Monica M.
Parker, PhD, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Sindy Paul, MD, New Jersey Department of Health & Senior Services, Trenton, New Jersey; Christopher Pilcher, MD, UCSF School of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California; Lisa M.
Randall, PhD, Michigan Department of Community Health, Lansing, Michigan; Lou Smith, MD, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Kenneth Soyemi, MD, Illinois Department of Public Health, Springfield, IL; Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; Kevin P.
Delaney, MPH; Timothy Granade, MS; Kristen Mahle Gray; M.
Patricia Joyce, MD; Richard Kline, MS; Laurie Linley, MPH; Robin J.
MacGowan, MPH; Rebecca Morgan, MPH; S.
Michele Owen, PhD; Pragna Patel, MD; Danuta Pieniazek, PhD; Richard M.
Selik, MD; R.
Luke Shouse, MD; Laura Wesolowski, PhD.
Acute HIV Infection Preconsultation Work Group External Members: Rashad Arcement, MSPH, Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, New Orleans, Louisiana; Berry Bennett, MPH, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Jim Kent, MS, Public Health-Seattle & King County, Seattle, Washington; Eugene G.
Martin, PhD, UMDNJ - Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Somerset, New Jersey; William R.
Oleszko, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Sindy Paul, MD, New Jersey Department of Health & Senior Services, Trenton, New Jersey; Christopher Pilcher, MD, UCSF School of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California; Amado Punsalang, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Lou Smith, MD, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Cynthia Turner, Houston Department of Health and Human Services, Houston, Texas.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; Hollie Clark, MPH; Samuel W.
Dooley, MD; Timothy Granade, MS; M.
Patricia Joyce, MD; Richard Kline, MS; S.
Michele Owen, PhD; Pragna Patel, MD; Danuta Pieniazek, PhD; Richard M.
Selik, MD; R.
Luke Shouse, MD.
HIV-2 Preconsultation Work Group External Members: Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; Timothy Granade, MS; M.
Patricia Joyce, MD; Richard Kline, MS; S.
Michele Owen, PhD; Danuta Pieniazek, PhD; Richard M.
Selik, MD; R.
Luke Shouse, MD.
Opportunistic Illnesses Preconsultation Work Group External Members: Dena M.
Bensen, MPH, Virginia Department of Health, Richmond, Virginia; Sandra Miranda de Leon, MPH, Puerto Rico Department of Health, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico; Rebecca Grigg, PhD, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Jerry Harms, MPH, Iowa Department of Public Health, Des Moines, Iowa; Sean Schafer, MD, Oregon Department of Human Services, Portland, Oregon; Sandy Schwarcz, MD, University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California; Thomas Shavor, MBA.
Tennessee Department of Health, Nashville, Tennessee; Linda Slinkard, Indiana State Department of Health, Indianapolis, Indiana; Steven Starr, California Department of Health, Sacramento, California; Flora Zorn, MPH, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Columbia, South Carolina.
CDC Staff Members: M.
Patricia Joyce, MD; Laurie Kamimoto, MD; Richard M.
Pediatric HIV Infection Preconsultation and Post-Consultation Work Groups External Members: Dena M.
Bensen, MPH, Virginia Department of Health, Richmond, Virginia; Kathleen A.
Brady, MD, Philadelphia Department of Public Health, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Michael T.
Brady, MD, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio; Rana Chakraborty, MD, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia; Patricia M.
Flynn, MD, St.
Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee; Toni Frederick, PhD, MSPH, Los Angeles County Department of Health Services, Los Angeles, California; Peter L.
Havens, MD, Medical College of Wisconsin, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin; Rohan Hazra, MD, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH, Rockville, Maryland; Gloria P.
Heresi, MD, University of Texas Medical School; Houston, Texas; Lorene Maddox, MPH, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Mary Michaud, New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services, Trenton, New Jersey; Lynne M.
Mofenson, MD, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH, Rockville, Maryland; Eve Mokotoff, MPH, Michigan Department of Community Health, Detroit, Michigan; Azita Naghdi, MPH, Los Angeles County Department of Health Services, Los Angeles, California; Paul E.
Palumbo, MD, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire; Mary E.
Paul, MD, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Savita Pahwa, MD, University of Miami, Miami, Florida; Vicki B.
Peters, MD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Richard M.
Rutstein, MD, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Gwendolyn Scott, MD, University of Miami, Miami, Florida; George K.
Siberry, MD, MPH, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Bethesda, Maryland; Kenneth Soyemi, MD, Illinois Department of Public Health, Springfield, IL; Russell Van Dyke, MD, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana.
CDC Staff Members: Kenneth Dominguez, MD; Steve Nesheim, MD; Richard M.
Selik, MD, Allan W.
Taylor, MD; Suzanne Whitmore, DrPH.
Physician-Documented Diagnosis Preconsultation Work Group External Members: Bridget Anderson, PhD, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Colin Flynn, ScM, Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Baltimore, Maryland; Betsey John, MPH, Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Steven Starr, California Department of Health, Sacramento, California; Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Attillio Zarrella, ThD, Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Baltimore, Maryland.
CDC Staff Members: Richard M.
Selik, MD; R.
Luke Shouse, MD.
Disclosure of Competing Interests The federal government employees who prepared this report have no conflict of interest with the manufacturers of the products discussed herein.
Competing interests for non-CDC contributors were not assessed except for the five experts who reviewed a draft of this manuscript (external peer review described at  ); they had no competing interests.
† Only among adults, adolescents, and children aged ≥6 years.
§ Suggested diagnostic criteria for these illnesses, which might be particularly important for HIV encephalopathy and HIV wasting syndrome, are described in the following references: CDC.
1994 Revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children less than 13 years of age.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Recommendations and Reports December 16, 2005 / 54(RR15);39-42 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Appendix A Glossary The following terms and abbreviations are used in this report.
Acid-fast bacilli (AFB).
Microorganisms that are distinguished by their retention of specific stains even after being rinsed with an acid solution.
The majority of AFB in patient specimens are mycobacteria, including species other than Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex.
A positive nucleic acid amplification (NAA) or culture result is needed for confirmation of M.
tuberculosis complex.
The relative concentration of AFB per unit area on a slide (the smear grade) is associated with infectiousness.
A condition wherein a person has diminished ability to exhibit delayed T-cell hypersensitivity reaction to antigens because of a condition or situation resulting in altered immune function.
When referring to inability to react to a skin test, the correct term is cutaneous anergy.
Skin tests for anergy (i.e., control antigens) have poor predictive value and are not recommended.
Associate contact.
A person who is somehow affiliated with a patient who has noninfectious tuberculosis (TB) or with another contact.
Often used in connection with source-case investigations; does not imply an M.
tuberculosis transmission pathway.
Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG).
A vaccine for tuberculosis named after the French scientists Calmette and Guérin.
The vaccine is effective in preventing disseminated and meningeal TB disease in infants and young children.
It might have approximately 50% efficacy for preventing smear-diagnosed pulmonary TB in adults.
It is used in multiple countries where TB disease is endemic.
This is called boosting or the booster phenomenon.
An initially limited reaction size is followed by a larger reaction size on a later test, which can be confused with a conversion or a recent M.
tuberculosis infection.
Two-step testing is used to distinguish new infections from boosted reactions in infection-control surveillance programs, but this method is not recommended for testing contacts.
Bronchoscopy.
A procedure for examining the lower respiratory tract that requires inserting the end of an endoscopic instrument through the mouth or nose (or tracheostomy) and into the respiratory tree.
It can be used to obtain diagnostic specimens.
It also creates a high risk for M.
tuberculosis transmission to health-care workers if it is used on a patient who has TB (even if the patient is smear negative), because the procedure induces coughing.
Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL).
A procedure for collecting respiratory specimens from the airway, typically during bronchoscopy.
Sterile saline is flushed through an airway, and the resultant mixture of cells, secretions, and saline is aspirated for studies (e.g., microscopy and culture).
A particular instance of a disease (e.g., TB).
A case is detected, documented, and reported.
Cavity (pulmonary).
A hole in the lung parenchyma, typically not involving the pleural space.
Although multiple causes can account for a lung cavity, and its appearance is similar regardless of its cause, in pulmonary TB, it results from the destruction of pulmonary tissue by direct bacterial invasion and an immune interaction triggered by M.
tuberculosis.
A tuberculous cavity large enough to see with a normal chest radiograph predicts infectiousness.
Refers to someone who has been exposed to M.
tuberculosis infection by sharing air space with a person with infectious TB.
Contagious.
Refers to TB disease of either the lungs or the throat that has been demonstrated to have caused transmission to other persons or the patient who has TB disease.
Conversion.
A change in the result of a test for M.
tuberculosis infection that is interpreted to indicate a change from being uninfected to infected.
A conversion is presumptive evidence of new M.
tuberculosis infection and poses an increased risk for progression to TB disease.
The term is applied to contacts only when previous skin test results are available.
A change in tuberculin status during the window period is not necessarily consistent with this definition.
Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH).
Cell-mediated inflammatory reaction to an antigen that is recognized by the immune system, typically because of previous exposure to the same or similar antigens.
Cell-mediated reactions are contrasted with an antibody (or humoral) response.
DTH typically peaks 48--72 hours after exposure to the antigen.
Directly observed therapy (DOT).
An adherence-enhancing strategy in which a health-care worker or other trained person watches a patient swallow each dose of medication and is accountable to the public health system.
DOT is the preferred method of care for all patients with TB disease and is a preferred option for patients under treatment for latent infection.
Disseminated TB.
See Miliary TB.
Drug-susceptibility test.
A laboratory determination to assess whether an M.
tuberculosis complex isolate is susceptible or resistant to anti-TB drugs that are added to mycobacterial growth medium.
The results predict whether a specific drug is likely to be effective in treating TB disease caused by that isolate.
A practical item given to a patient for making adherence (e.g., to treatment or to clinic appointments) easier.
The condition of being subjected to something (e.g., an infectious agent) that could have an effect.
A person exposed to M.
tuberculosis does not necessarily become infected.
Much of the work in a TB contact investigation is dedicated to learning who was exposed and, of these, who became infected.
Exposure period.
The coincident period when a contact shared the same air space as a person with TB during the infectious period.
Exposure site.
A location that the index patient visited during the infectious period (e.g., a school, bar, bus, or residence).
Immunocompromised and immunosuppressed.
Conditions in which at least part of the immune system is functioning at less than normal capacity.
According to some style experts, immunocompromised is the broader term, and immunosuppressed is restricted to conditions with iatrogenic causes, including treatments for another condition.
Some immunocompromised conditions increase the likelihood that M.
tuberculosis infection will progress to TB disease.
Certain conditions also make TB disease or infection from M.
tuberculosis more difficult to diagnose because manifestations of TB disease differ, and tests for infection rely on an intact immune system.
A gift given to patients to encourage or acknowledge their adherence to treatment.
The first case or patient that comes to attention as an indicator of a potential public health problem.
Contrast with Source.
Induration.
The firmness in the skin test reaction.
Induration is produced by immune-cell infiltration in response to tuberculin antigen that was introduced into the skin.
It is measured by palpation transversely, and the result is recorded in millimeters (mm).
The measurement is compared to guidelines to determine whether the test result is classified as positive or negative.
A condition in which microorganisms have entered the body and typically have elicited immune responses.
tuberculosis infection might progress to TB disease.
The expression M.
tuberculosis infection includes both latent infection and TB disease.
tuberculosis infection or latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) is an asymptomatic condition that follows the initial infection; the infection is still present but is dormant (and believed not to be currently progressive or invasive).
TB disease is determined by finding anatomic changes caused by advancing infection (e.g., shadows from infiltrates on a chest radiograph) or by noting symptoms (e.g., malaise, feverishness, or cough), and typically by both.
Positive culture results for M.
tuberculosis complex typically are interpreted as both an indication of TB disease and its confirmation, but infecting organisms can be obtained from patients who have no other evidence of disease.
Infectious.
Refers either to TB disease of the lungs or throat, which has the potential to cause transmission to other persons, or to the patient who has TB disease.
Isoniazid (INH).
A highly active anti-TB chemotherapeutic agent that is a basis of treatment for TB disease and latent infection.
Laryngeal TB.
A highly infectious form of TB disease, with erosive, exudative invasion of the larynx.
See Infection.
Mantoux method.
A skin test performed by intradermally injecting 0.1 mL of PPD tuberculin solution into the volar or dorsal surface of the forearm.
This is the recommended method for tuberculin skin testing.
Meningeal TB.
A highly dangerous and difficult-to-diagnose form of TB disease with infectious invasion of the tissues covering the brain.
Often indolent but uniformly fatal if untreated, at times it is diagnosed too late to save the patient's life or prevent permanent disability.
Miliary TB.
Sometimes referred to as disseminated TB.
A dangerous, and difficult to diagnose, form of rapidly progressing TB disease that extends throughout the body.
Uniformly fatal if untreated, sometimes it is diagnosed too late to save a life.
Derives its names from a pathognomonic chest radiograph, but certain patients with this condition have normal findings or ordinary infiltrates on the chest radiograph.
Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB).
TB disease caused by an M.
tuberculosis strain that is resistant to at least INH and rifampin.
Treatment regimens for curing MDR TB are long, expensive, and difficult to tolerate.
The cure rate depends on the susceptibility of M.
tuberculosis to alternative chemotherapy.
Mycobacterium bovis (M.
A member organism of M.
tuberculosis complex and the causative infectious agent of TB in cattle.
It also causes infection and disease in humans, who become infected by consuming unpasteurized dairy products from tuberculous cows.
bovis TB disease has certain distinctive characteristics but in practical terms is indistinguishable from human-variant TB.
Human pulmonary M.
bovis TB disease probably is transmissible to other humans by the airborne route, and secondary cases can result, especially among vulnerable contacts.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.
tuberculosis).
The namesake member organism of M.
tuberculosis complex, and the most common causative infectious agent of TB disease in humans.
At times, the species name refers to the entire M.
tuberculosis complex, which includes M.
bovis and five other related species.
Nucleic acid amplification (NAA).
A laboratory method used to target and amplify a single DNA or RNA sequence for detecting and identifying (typically) a microorganism.
NAA tests for M.
tuberculosis complex are sensitive and specific; they can accelerate confirmation of pulmonary TB disease.
Purified protein derivative (PPD) tuberculin.
A material used in diagnostic tests for M.
tuberculosis infection.
In the United States, PPD solution (5 tuberculin units per 0.1 mL) is approved for administration as an intradermal injection as a diagnostic aid for M.
tuberculosis infection (latent infection or TB disease).
PPD tuberculin also was one of the antigens in the first-generation QuantiFERON-TB test.
QuantiFERON®-TB test.
An in vitro cytokine assay that detects cell-mediated immune response (see also DTH) to M.
tuberculosis in heparinized whole blood from venipuncture.
In 2005, QuantiFERON®-TB is being replaced by QuantiFERON®-TB Gold, which has greater specificity because of its synthetic antigens.
QuantiFERON®-TB Gold appears capable of distinguishing between the sensitization caused by M.
tuberculosis infection and that caused by BCG vaccination.
Radiography.
The diagnostic imaging techniques (including plain-film chest radiographs and computerized tomography) that rely on degrees of X-radiation transmission related to differences in tissue densities.
Secondary (TB) case.
Technically, all cases are secondary, in the sense that they arise from other cases that are contagious.
Secondary (or "second-generation") transmission.
Transmission of M.
tuberculosis from persons with secondary cases (see Secondary (TB) case).
This creates a chain of transmission, and if secondary transmission is identified as part of a contact investigation, the scenario can be classified as an outbreak.
A laboratory technique for preparing a specimen so bacteria can be visualized microscopically.
Material from the specimen is spread onto a glass slide (and typically dried and stained).
Smear, stain, and microscopy methods for mycobacteria are specific to this genus (see AFB).
The slide can be scanned by light or fluorescent high-power microscopy.
These methods require ongoing quality assurance for prompt and reliable results.
The results for sputum AFB smears typically are reported as numbers of AFB per high-powered microscopy field, or else as a graded result, from no AFB to 4+ AFB.
The quantity of stained organisms is associated with degree of infectiousness.
Source case or patient.
The case or person that was the original source of infection for secondary cases or contacts.
The source case can be, but is not necessarily, the index case.
Any bodily fluid, secretion, or tissue sent to a laboratory for testing.
Mucus containing secretions coughed up from within the lungs.
Tests of sputum (e.g., smear and culture) can confirm pulmonary TB disease.
Sputum is different from saliva or nasal secretions, which are unsatisfactory specimens for detecting TB disease.
However, specimens suspected to be inadequate should still be processed because positive cultures can still be obtained and may be the only bacteriologic indication of disease.
Suspected TB.
A tentative diagnosis of TB that will be confirmed or excluded by subsequent testing.
Symptomatic.
A term applied to a patient with health-related complaints (i.e., symptoms) that might indicate the presence of disease.
At times, the term is applied to a medical condition (e.g., symptomatic pulmonary TB).
TB disease.
See discussion under Infection.
Treatment for LTBI.
Treatment that prevents the progression of infection into TB disease.
Tuberculin.
A precipitate made from a sterile filtrate of M.
tuberculosis culture medium.
Tuberculin skin test (TST).
A diagnostic aid for finding M.
tuberculosis infection.
A small dose of tuberculin (see also Mantoux method and PPD) is injected just beneath the surface of the skin by the Mantoux method, and the area is examined for induration by palpation 48--72 hours after the injection.
Indurated margins should be read transverse (perpendicular) to the long axis of the forearm.
Tuberculin skin test conversion.
See Conversion.
Tuberculosis (TB).
A clinically active, symptomatic disease caused by infection with a member of the M.
tuberculosis complex.
Two-step (tuberculin) skin test.
A procedure used for baseline skin testing of persons who will periodically receive TSTs (e.g., health-care workers or residents of long-term--care facilities) to reduce the likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.
If an initial TST result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated 1--3 weeks later.
If the reaction to the second TST is positive, it probably represents a boosted reaction, indicating that the infection was most likely in the past and not recent.
If the second TST is also negative, the person is classified as not being infected.
Two-step skin testing has no place in contact investigations or in other circumstances in which ongoing transmission of M.
tuberculosis is suspected.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly October 11, 2002 / 51(40);919 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Erratum: Vol.
39 In the article, "Increase in African Immigrants and Refugees with Tuberculosis---Seattle-King County, Washington, 1998--2001," on page 883, the data for the community-based TB prevention project of Seattle-King County Public Health were incorrectly attributed to the Institute of Medicine Report on TB (reference 6).
The data were contributed directly from the Seattle TB prevention project.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports September 30, 1994 / 43(RR-12);1-10 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
1994 Revised Classification System for Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection in Children Less Than 13 Years of Age The following CDC staff members prepared this report: M.
Blake Caldwell, M.D., M.P.H.
Margaret J.
Oxtoby, M.D.
Simonds, M.D.
Mary Lou Lindegren, M.D.
Rogers, M.D.
Division of HIV/AIDS National Center for Infectious Diseases CONSULTANTS External Consultants Stephane Blanche, M.D.
Savita Pahwa, M.D.
Necker Hospital Cornell Medical School Paris, France New York Hospital New York, NY Mary Boland, R.N., M.S.N.
Children's Hospital of New Jersey Catherine Peckham, M.D.
Newark, NJ Institute of Child Health London, England William Borkowsky, M.D.
New York University Medical Center Merlin Robb, M.D.
New York, NY Walter Reed Army Medical Center Washington, DC Edward Connor, M.D.
Children's Hospital of New Jersey Gwendolyn Scott, M.D.
Newark, NJ University of Miami School of Medicine Louis Cooper, M.D.
Miami, FL St.
Luke's Hospital New York, NY William Shearer, M.D., Ph.D.
Baylor College of Medicine Clemente Diaz, M.D.
Houston, TX University Medical Center San Juan, PR Richard Stiehm, M.D.
University of California at Los Leon Epstein, M.D.
Angeles Medical Center University of Rochester School of Los Angeles, CA Medicine Rochester, NY Rand Stoneburner, M.D.
World Health Organization David Fleming, M.D.
Geneva, Switzerland Oregon Department of Human Resources Rachel Strikof, M.P.H.
Portland, OR New York State Health Department Albany, NY Celine Hanson, M.D.
Baylor College of Medicine Pauline Thomas, M.D.
Houston, TX New York City Department of Health New York, NY Laurene Mascola, M.D.
Los Angeles County Health Department Pier Tovo, M.D.
Los Angeles, CA University of Turin Turin, Italy James Oleske, M.D.
Children's Hospital of New Jersey Catherine Wilfert, M.D.
Newark, NJ Duke University Medical Center Durham, NC Public Health Service Consultants Centers for Disease Control National Institutes of Health and Prevention James Balsley, M.D., Ph.D.
Ruth Berkelman, M.D.
Rodney Hoff, Ph.D.
Blake Caldwell, M.D., M.P.H.
Lynne Mofenson, M.D.
Kenneth Castro, M.D.
Philip Pizzo, M.D.
Margaret Oxtoby, M.D.
Martha Rogers, M.D.
John Ward, M.D.
Health Resources Services Administration Beth Roy Acknowledgments We thank the following persons/projects for contributing data used to establish the CD4+ percent categories: Stephane Blanche, the French Colla- borative Study; Mary Glenn Fowler, the Women and Infants Transmission Study; Catherine Peckham, the European Collaborative Study; Margaret Heagarty, the New York City Perinatal HIV Transmission Collaborative Study; Savita Pahwa, North Shore University Hospital; and William Shearer and Celine Hanson, Baylor Medical Center.
Summary This revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in children replaces the pediatric HIV classification system published in 1987 (1).
This revision was prompted by additional knowledge about the progression of HIV disease among children.
In the new system, infected children are classified into mutually exclusive categories according to three parameters: a) infection status, b) clinical status, and c) immunologic status.
The revised classification system reflects the stage of the child's disease, establishes mutually exclusive classification categories, and balances simplicity and medical accuracy in the classification process.
This document also describes revised pediatric definitions for two acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-defining conditions.
INTRODUCTION Following the initial report in 1982 of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in children (2), it became evident that the clinical charac- teristics of AIDS in children were different from those in adults.
In 1987, CDC published a classification system for children infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (1), the causative agent of AIDS.
This classifi- cation system categorized clinical manifestations of HIV infection in children based on the limited data available early in the epidemic.
New knowledge about the progression of HIV disease among children warranted revision of the 1987 classification system to better reflect the disease process.
In 1991, CDC convened a working group of Public Health Service and other consultants to discuss revision of the pediatric HIV classification system.
The 1994 revised classification system was developed through ongoing colla- borations with the consultants following the 1991 meeting.
The goal of the working group was to construct a revised system that would: reflect the stage of disease for an HIV-infected child (i.e., the child's placement in the classification should have prognostic significance); establish mutually exclusive classification categories; and balance simplicity and medical accuracy in the classification process.
In the new system (Table_1), HIV-infected children are classified into mutually exclusive categories according to three parameters: a) infection status, b) clinical status, and c) immunologic status.
Once classified, an HIV-infected child cannot be reclassified in a less severe category even if the child's clinical or immunologic status improves.
DIAGNOSING HIV INFECTION IN CHILDREN Diagnosis of HIV infection in children born to HIV-infected mothers (Box 1 Table_B1) is complicated by the presence of maternal anti-HIV IgG antibody, which crosses the placenta to the fetus.
Virtually all these children are HIV-antibody positive at birth, although only 15%-30% are actually infected.
In uninfected children, this antibody usually becomes undetectable by 9 months of age but occasionally remains detectable until 18 months of age.
Therefore, standard anti-HIV IgG antibody tests cannot be used to indicate reliably a child's infection status before 18 months of age (3).
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and virus culture are probably the most sensitive and specific assays for detecting HIV infection in children born to infected mothers (4-6).
Use of these assays can identify approximately 30%-50% of infected infants at birth and nearly 100% of infected infants by 3-6 months of age (7).
The standard p24-antigen assay is less sensitive than either virus culture or PCR, especially when anti-HIV antibody levels are high, because it fails to detect immune-complexed p24 antigen (8).
However, modification of the p24-antigen assay to dissociate immune complexes has increased its sensitivity in diagnosing HIV infection among children exposed to HIV (9).
In addition, they are less sensitive than both PCR or virus culture.
However, clinicians who determine a child's antiretroviral therapy on the basis of such assays may use them to classify the child as being infected.
Some children develop severe clinical conditions resulting from HIV infection before their infection status has been sufficiently established.
For the purposes of classification, a child meeting the criteria for AIDS in the 1987 case definition (10) should be considered HIV-infected -- even in the absence of definitive laboratory assays.
Children born to mothers with HIV infection are defined as seroreverters (SRs) and are considered uninfected with HIV if they a) become HIV-antibody negative after 6 months of age, b) have no other laboratory evidence of HIV infection, and c) have not met the AIDS surveillance case definition criteria (Box 1 Table_B1).
Sufficient data are not available to conclusively define a child who is uninfected on the basis of viral detection tests.
However, in certain situations (e.g., clinical trials), negative viral detection tests may be used presumptively to exclude infection.
IMMUNOLOGIC CATEGORIES The three immunologic categories (Table_2) were established to categorize children by the severity of immunosuppression attributable to HIV infection.
CD4+ T-lymphocyte depletion is a major consequence of HIV infection and is responsible for many of the severe manifestations of HIV infection in adults.
For this reason, CD4+ counts are used in the adult HIV classification system (11).
However, several findings complicate the use of CD4+ counts for assessing immunosuppression resulting from HIV infection in children.
Normal CD4+ counts are higher in infants and young children than in adults and decline over the first few years of life (12-16).
In addition, children may develop opportunistic infections at higher CD4+ levels than adults (17-19).
Although insufficient data exist to correlate CD4+ levels with disease progression at all age groups, low age-specific CD4+ counts appear to correlate with conditions associated with immunosuppression in children (12,17,20,21).
Therefore, despite these complications, classifi- cation based on age-specific CD4+ levels appears to be useful for describing the immunologic status of HIV-infected children.
Fewer data are available on age-specific values for CD4+ T-lymphocyte percent of total lymphocytes than for absolute counts.
However, the CD4+ T- lymphocyte percent has less measurement variability than the absolute count (22).
To establish the age-specific values of CD4+ percent that correlate with the CD4+ count thresholds, CDC compiled data from selected clinical projects in the United States and Europe.
The data included greater than 9,000 CD4+ counts, with the corresponding CD4+ percent determinations, from both HIV-infected and uninfected children less than 13 years of age.
Nonparametric regression modeling was used to establish the CD4+ percent boundaries that best correlated with the CD4+ count boundaries in the classification system.
The immunologic category classification (Table_2) is based on either the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count or the CD4+ percent of total lymphocytes.
If both the CD4+ count and the CD4+ percent indicate different classification categories, the child should be classified into the more severe category.
Repeated or follow-up CD4+ values that result in a change in classification should be confirmed by a second determination.
Values thought to be in error should not be used.
A child should not be reclassified to a less severe category regardless of subsequent CD4+ determinations.
CLINICAL CATEGORIES Children infected with HIV or perinatally exposed to HIV may be classified into one of four mutually exclusive clinical categories based on signs, symptoms, or diagnoses related to HIV infection (Box 2 Table_B2).
As with the immunologic categories, the clinical categories have been defined to provide a staging classification (e.g., the prognosis for children in the second category would be less favorable than for those in the first category).
Category N, not symptomatic, includes children with no signs or symptoms considered to be the result of HIV infection or with only one of the conditions listed in Category A, mildly symptomatic.
Category N was separated from Category A partly because of the substantial amount of time that can elapse before a child manifests the signs or symptoms defined in Category B, moderately symptomatic.
Also, more staging information can be obtained during this early stage of disease by separating Categories N and A.
In addition, for children who have uncertain HIV-infection status (prefix E), Categories N and A may help to distinguish those children who are more likely to be infected with HIV (23) (i.e., children in Category EA may be more likely to be infected than children in Category EN).
Category B includes all children with signs and symptoms thought to be caused by HIV infection but not specifically outlined under Category A or Category C, severely symptomatic.
The conditions listed in Box 2 Table_B2 are examples only; any other HIV-related condition not included in Category A or C should be included in Category B.
Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and lymphopenia have defined thresholds in the new classification system (23).
Category C includes all AIDS-defining conditions except lymphoid inter- stitial pneumonitis (LIP) (Box 3 Table_B3).
Several reports indicate that the prognosis for children with LIP is substantially better than that for children who have other AIDS-defining conditions (21,24,25).
Thus, LIP has been separated from the other AIDS-defining conditions in Category C and placed in Category B.
Signs and symptoms related to causes other than HIV infection (e.g., inflammatory or drug-related causes) should not be used to classify children.
For example, a child with drug-related hepatitis or anemia should not be classified in Category B solely because these conditions may be associated with HIV infection.
In contrast, a child with anemia or hepatitis should be classified in Category B when the condition is thought to be related to HIV infection.
The criteria for diagnosing some conditions and determining whether a child's signs, symptoms, or diagnoses are related to HIV infection may not be clear in all cases, and therefore may require judgment of the clinicians and researchers using the classification system.
Categories in the 1987 pediatric HIV classification system can be translated into categories in the 1994 system in most cases (Box 4 Table_B4).
Class P0 is now designated by the prefix "E," and Class P1 is now Class N.
Children previously classified as P2A are now classified in more than one category, reflecting the different prognoses for children with different conditions included in the P2A category (e.g., children who have wasting syndrome have a worse prognosis than those who have lymphadenopathy).
EFFECT ON THE AIDS SURVEILLANCE CASE DEFINITION FOR CHILDREN Because the classification system is used in conjunction with the AIDS case definition, the 1994 revision provided an opportunity to update certain features of the 1987 AIDS surveillance case definition for children less than 13 years of age (10).
Although LIP is in Category B under the new pediatric HIV classification system, it will continue to be reportable to state and local health departments (along with the conditions in Category C) as an AIDS-defining condition in children.
Two changes in the definitions for other conditions are summarized in the following bulletted text: The new definitions for HIV encephalopathy and HIV wasting syndrome reflect increased knowledge of these conditions in children and replace the definitions published in the 1987 AIDS surveillance case definition for children.
The definition of HIV en-cephalopathy follows the recom- mendations of the American Academy of Neurology AIDS Task Force (26).
Because this condition is complex, diagnosis may require neurologic consultation.
The new definition of HIV infection (Box 1 Table_B1) replaces the definition for laboratory evidence of HIV infection in children used in the 1987 pediatric AIDS case definition.
References CDC.
Classification system for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in children under 13 years of age.
MMWR 1987;36:225-30,235.
Unexplained immunodeficiency and opportunistic infection in infants New York, New Jersey, California.
MMWR 1982;31:665-7.
Simpson BJ, Andiman WA.
Difficulties in assigning human immunodeficiency virus-1 infection and seroreversion status in a cohort of HIV-exposed children using serologic criteria established by the CDC and Prevention.
Pediatrics 1994;93:840-2.
Krivine A, Firtion G, Cao L, Francoual C, Henrion R, Lebon P.
HIV replication during the first weeks of life.
Lancet 1992;339:1187-9.
Rogers MF, Ou C-Y, Rayfield M, et al.
Use of the polymerase chain reaction for early detection of the proviral sequences of human immunode- ficiency virus in infants born to seropositive mothers.
N Engl J Med 1989;320:1649-54.
Burgard M, Mayaux M-J, Blanche S, et al.
The use of viral culture and p24 antigen testing to diagnose human immunodeficiency virus infection in neonates.
N Engl J Med 1992;327:1192-7.
Report of a consensus workshop, Siena, Italy, January 17-18, 1992: early diagnosis of HIV infection in infants.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 1992;5:1169-78.
Rogers M, Ou C, Kilbourne B, Schochetman G.
Advances and problems in the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infection in infants.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1991;10:523-31.
Miles SA, Baldern E, Magpantay L, et al.
Rapid serologic testing with immune-complex-dissociated HIV p24 antigen for early detection of HIV infection in neonates.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:297-302.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36 (suppl):1-15s.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1993;41(No.
Erkeller-Yuksel FM, Deneys V, Yuksel B, et al.
Age-related changes in human blood lymphocyte sub-populations.
J Pediatr 1992;120:216-22.
Denny T, Yogev R, Gelman R, et al.
Lymphocyte subsets in healthy children during the first 5 years of life.
JAMA 1992;267:1484-8.
McKinney RE, Wilfert CM.
Lymphocyte subsets in children younger than 2 years old: normal values in a population at risk for human immunode- ficiency virus infection and diagnostic and prognostic application to infected children.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1992;11:639-44.
The European Collaborative Study.
Age-related standards for T-lymphocyte subsets based on uninfected children born to human immunodeficiency virus-1-infected women.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1992;11:1018-26.
Waecker NJ, Ascher DP, Robb ML, et al.
Age adjusted CD4+ lymphocyte parameters in HIV at risk uninfected children.
Clin Infect Dis 1993;17: 123-6.
Leibovitz E, Rigaud M, Pollack H, et al.
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in infants infected with the human immunodeficiency virus with more than 450 CD4 T lymphocytes per cubic millimeter.
N Engl J Med 1990;323:531-3.
Connor E, Bagarazzi M, McSherry G, et al.
Clinical and laboratory correlates of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in children infected with HIV.
JAMA 1991;265:1693-7.
Kovacs A, Frederick T, Church J, et al.
CD4 T-Lymphocyte counts and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in pediatric HIV infection.
JAMA 1991;265: 1698-1703.
Butler KM, Husson RN, Lewis LL, et al.
CD4 status and p24 antigenemia: are they useful predictors of survival in HIV-infected children receiving antiretroviral therapy.
Am J Dis Child 1992;146:932-6.
de Martino M, Tovo PA, Galli L, et al.
Prognostic significance of immuno- logic changes in 675 infants perinatally exposed to human immunode- ficiency virus.
J Pediatr 1991;119:702-9.
Raszka WV, Meyer GA, Waecker NJ, et al.
Variability of serial absolute and percent CD4+ lymphocyte counts in healthy children born to HIV-1- infected parents.
Lancet 1994;13:70-2.
Caldwell B, Oxtoby M, Rogers M.
IXth International Conference on AIDS, Berlin, June 7-11, 1993.
Tovo PA, deMartino M, Gabiano C, et al.
Prognostic factors and survival in children with perinatal HIV-1 infection.
Lancet 1992;339:1249-53.
Blanche S, Tardieu M, Duliege AM, et al.
Longitudinal study of 94 symptomatic infants with perinatally acquired human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Am J Dis Child 1990;144:1210-5.
Working Group of the American Academy of Neurology AIDS Task Force.
Nomenclature and research case definitions for neurologic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1) infection.
Neurology 1991;41:778-86 Table_1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Pediatric human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) classification * ====================================================================================================== Clinical categories ----------------------------------------------------------- B: + Moderate C: + Severe Immunologic N: No signs/ A: Mild signs/ signs/ signs/ categories symptoms symptoms symptoms symptoms ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1: No evidence of suppression N1 A1 B1 C1 2: Evidence of moderate suppression N2 A2 B2 C2 3: Severe suppression N3 A3 B3 C3 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Children whose HIV infection status is not confirmed are classified by using the above grid with a letter E (for perinatally exposed) placed before the appropriate classification code (e.g., EN2).
+ Both Category C and lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis in Category B are reportable to state and local health departments as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
====================================================================================================== Return to top.
Table_B1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
has positive results on two separate determinations (excluding cord blood) from one or more of the following HIV detection tests: -- HIV culture, -- HIV polymerase chain reaction, -- HIV antigen (p24), or .
meets criteria for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) diagnosis based on the 1987 AIDS surveillance case definition (10).
meets any of the criteria in a) above.
DIAGNOSIS: PERINATALLY EXPOSED (PREFIX E) A child who does not meet the criteria above who: .
has unknown antibody status, but was born to a mother known to be infected with HIV.
DIAGNOSIS: SEROREVERTER (SR) A child who is born to an HIV-infected mother and who: .
has been documented as HIV-antibody negative (i.e., two or more negative EIA tests performed at 6-18 months of age or one negative EIA test after 18 months of age); and .
has had no other laboratory evidence of infection (has not had two positive viral detection tests, if performed); and .
has not had an AIDS-defining condition.
* This definition of HIV infection replaces the definition published in the 1987 AIDS surveillance case definition (10).
Return to top.
Table_2 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Table_B2 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Clinical categories for children with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection CATEGORY N: NOT SYMPTOMATIC Children who have no signs or symptoms considered to be the result of HIV infection or who have only one of the conditions listed in Category A.
CATEGORY A: MILDLY SYMPTOMATIC Children with two or more of the conditions listed below but none of the condi- tions listed in Categories B and C.
Return to top.
Table_B3 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Return to top.
Table_B4 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Comparison of the 1987 and 1994 pediatric human immunodeficiency virus classification systems 1987 Classification 1994 Classification ---------------------------------------------- P-0 Prefix "E" P-1 N P-2A A, B, and C P-2B C P-2C B P-2D1 C P-2D2 C P-2D3 B P-2E1 C P-2E2 B P-2F B Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
HIV-2 Infection Surveillance --- United States, 1987--2009 Weekly July 29, 2011 / 60(29);985-988 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is categorized into two types, HIV-1 and HIV-2.
Worldwide, most HIV infections are HIV-1, whereas HIV-2 largely has been confined to persons in or from West Africa (1,2).
HIV-1 and HIV-2 have the same routes of transmission, and both can cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (3); however, HIV-2 infections should be differentiated from HIV-1 infections because they are less likely to cause AIDS and their clinical management differs (4,5).
CDC's current surveillance case definition for HIV infection applies to both variants of HIV (6) but lacks criteria for differentiating between HIV-1 and HIV-2.
To enumerate and describe HIV-2 cases reported in the United States, a working case definition was developed.
During 1988--June 2010, a total of 242 HIV-2 cases were reported to CDC.
Of these, 166 met the working definition.
These HIV-2 cases were concentrated in the Northeast (66%, including 46% in New York City) and occurred primarily among persons born in West Africa (81%).
Ninety-seven of the HIV-2 cases also had a positive HIV-1 immunoblot antibody test result (e.g., Western blot).
Immunoblot antibody tests currently used to confirm HIV reactive screening tests do not contain reagents specific to HIV-2 and thus are not reliable for identification of HIV-2 infections (7).
Additional testing specific to HIV-2 should be considered if HIV-1 test results are atypical or inconsistent with clinical findings, especially for persons from West Africa.
If an HIV case is reported to the health department but subsequently identified as HIV-2, health-care providers should update the case report to reflect the correct type.
During 2009--2010, CDC convened a workgroup to develop the working HIV-2 definition used in this report.
To meet this working definition, cases had to satisfy one or more of the following three criteria: 1) HIV-1/HIV-2 type-differentiating antibody immunoassay (e.g., Bio-Rad Multispot HIV1/HIV-2 Rapid Test) positive for HIV-2 but negative for HIV-1, 2) positive HIV-2 nucleic acid test (DNA or RNA), 3) positive HIV-2 immunoblot and negative or indeterminate HIV-1 immunoblot.
In addition, one case reported in 1991 was accepted based only on a positive radioimmunoprecipitation assay (a now obsolete test).
Neither the nucleic acid tests nor the immunoblots have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for diagnosis of HIV-2 infection, but the Bio-Rad Multispot HIV-1/HIV-2 Rapid Test has been approved for differentiation of HIV-2 from HIV-1.
During 1988--June 2010, health departments of the 50 states and the District of Columbia reported to CDC a total of 242 HIV-2 cases, based on a variety of criteria with no formal HIV-2 infection case definition.
From that total, 47 reported cases were excluded because they had insufficient identifying information to discern whether or not they were duplicate reports.
An additional 29 cases were excluded because they did not meet any of the three working definition criteria.
The remaining 166 cases met one or more of the criteria of the working definition and were analyzed by diagnostic test results, reason for suspecting HIV-2 infection, region of report, country of birth, race/ethnicity, sex, age, and transmission risk factor.
Poisson regression was used to assess trends in the annual number of diagnoses.
The year of diagnosis was defined as the year of the first positive HIV test, which in some cases was years before recognition that the HIV type was HIV-2.
Of the 166 HIV-2 cases, 113 (68%) met the first criterion of a result positive for HIV-2 but negative for HIV-1 on a type-differentiating antibody immunoassay, 66 (40%) met the second criterion of a positive HIV-2 nucleic acid test, and 58 (35%) met the third criterion of a positive HIV-2 immunoblot and negative or indeterminate HIV-1 immunoblot.
Seventy-one (43%) of the 166 cases met more than one of the three criteria.
HIV-1 immunoblot results were available for 163 of the HIV-2 cases; 97 (60%) were positive for HIV-1, 63 (39%) were indeterminate, and three (2%) were negative.
Of the 97 HIV-2 cases with positive HIV-1 immunoblot results, the diagnosis of HIV-2 was established by a type-differentiating antibody immunoassay in 46 cases, by an HIV-2 nucleic acid test in 22 cases, and by both in 29 cases (Table 1).
HIV-1 nucleic acid test results were negative in 66 (40%) HIV-2 cases and were missing in 81 (49%) HIV-2 cases.
Data were available for 116 HIV-2 cases regarding why HIV-2 might have been suspected initially.
Of these, 65 (56%) patients had an indeterminate HIV-1 immunoblot despite a positive HIV-1 or HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody screening test, 47 (41%) had an undetectable HIV-1 viral load despite a positive HIV-1 immunoblot, and four patients (three born in West Africa and one who had visited West Africa) had a negative HIV-1 immunoblot despite a positive HIV-1 or HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody screening test.
Of the 164 HIV-2 patients for whom birthplace was known, 132 (81%) were born in West Africa.
Seven (4%) were born in other parts of Africa, and six (4%) in unspecified parts of Africa.
Nine (6%) were born in India, five in the United States, three in Europe, and two in Mexico (Table 2).
Of the 166 cases of HIV-2 infection, 77 (46%) were reported from New York City, 33 (20%) from elsewhere in the Northeast, 24 (15%) from the South, 18 (11%) from the Midwest, and 14 (8%) from the West.
Among the patients, 89% were non-Hispanic blacks, 58% were men, and the median age at diagnosis of HIV infection was 39 years (range: 21--76 years).
No transmission risk factor was identified in 120 (72%) of the 166 cases, including 78 cases among persons with a history of heterosexual contact but whose sex partners had unknown infection status or were known to be uninfected.
The reported risk factors for the remaining 88 cases were heterosexual contact with a sex partner known to be HIV-infected (38 patients, 23%), male-to-male sexual contact (four, 2%), and injection-drug use (four, 2%).
Of the 50 women aged 15--44 years at diagnosis, 24 (48%) were pregnant at or after HIV-2 diagnosis.
No children born to these 24 women were reported to be HIV-infected, but follow-up information was missing for six of the children born after their mother's diagnosis.
Poisson regression indicated that the annual number of HIV-2 diagnoses in the United States increased significantly from 1987 to 2009; however, the increase might be the result of surveillance artifact.
No significant trends in HIV-2 diagnoses were observed during 1990--1999 (mean: 4.3 diagnoses per year; range: 1--8), or during 2000--2009 (mean: 12.0 per year; range: 8--19).
The annual number increased abruptly from two in 1999 to 12 in 2000, the year that New York began confidential name-based reporting of HIV infection cases in addition to AIDS reporting.
Similar results were obtained when the trend analyses included all suspected cases that were excluded from other analyses (Figure).
The 166 HIV-2 cases constituted only 0.01% of the more than 1.4 million U.S.
cases of HIV infection diagnosed during 1987--2009 (unadjusted for reporting delay).
Of the 5,284 HIV infections reported in the United States among persons born in West Africa, 132 (3%) were HIV-2 infections.
Reported by Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, Bur of HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control, New York City Dept of Health and Mental Hygiene.
Selik, MD, Bernard Branson, MD, S.
Michele Owen, PhD, Timothy Granade, MS, R.
Luke Shouse, MD, M.
Patricia Joyce, MD, Danuta Pieniazek, PhD, Richard Kline, MS, Div of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Richard M.
Selik, rselik@cdc.gov, 404-639-4495.
Editorial Note The results of the analyses described in this report indicate that HIV-2 infections in the United States are rare, concentrated in the Northeast, and limited mainly to persons born in West Africa.
Regional differences in the percentage of reported HIV cases caused by HIV-2 might be, in part, a result of the nonuniform geographic distribution of U.S.
residents born in West Africa.
New York is a major gateway for African immigrants to the United States (8).
However, regional differences in the percentage of HIV cases caused by HIV-2 also could be the result of variations in completeness of diagnosis and reporting of HIV-2 by laboratories and state HIV surveillance programs.
In particular, the large percentage of HIV-2 cases reported from New York City might have resulted, in part, from an increased focus on ascertainment of HIV-2 cases by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, which has conducted active investigations to identify HIV-2 infections (9) and issued an advisory to clinicians regarding diagnostic testing for HIV-2.
The percentage of HIV-2 diagnoses based on an HIV-2 DNA test was several times higher among cases reported from New York City (68%), where many cases were diagnosed by the city's public health laboratory, than among cases from the four other regions (range: zero to 26%).
The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, the surveillance case definition for HIV infection and the working HIV-2 definition used in this analysis are intended primarily for analysis of epidemiologic trends and associations and might be inappropriate for other purposes, such as the clinical management of patients, which might require diagnostic considerations beyond the criteria used for the case definition.
CDC currently is reviewing the HIV surveillance case definition to identify areas for revision, including the addition of specific criteria for HIV-2.
Second, the 166 HIV-2 infections described in this report are likely an underestimate of HIV-2 cases in the United States.
Many of the 76 suspected cases excluded from the analysis because of inadequate data on test results or missing identifiers might be actual HIV-2 cases.
Other cases might not have been diagnosed because diagnostic tests specific for HIV-2 (e.g., DNA test or type-differentiating antibody immunoassay) were not widely used, and some cases might not have been recognized because of negative or persistently indeterminate results on assays designed primarily to detect HIV-1 antibodies.
Finally, although 11% of HIV-2 cases had nucleic acid evidence of possible coinfection with HIV-1, the full extent of coinfection could not be assessed because HIV-1 nucleic acid test results were missing for 49% of the HIV-2 cases.
Additional specific testing for HIV-2 should be considered if test results for HIV-1 are inconsistent with one another, inconclusive, or imply the absence of HIV infection despite clinical evidence suggesting its presence, particularly if the patient was born in or had other associations with areas such as West Africa, where HIV-2 infection is prevalent.
Suspected HIV-2 cases should be reported to state or local health departments, which can conduct supplemental diagnostic tests for HIV-2 or arrange for them to be done at the CDC laboratory.
In every state, confirmed HIV infection diagnoses are required by law or regulation to be reported to the health department.
References O'Brien TR, George JR, Holmberg SD.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 2 infection in the United States.
JAMA 1992;267:2775--9.
Testing for antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 in the United States.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
De Cock KM, Brun-Vézinet F, Soro B.
HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections and AIDS in West Africa.
AIDS 1991;5(Suppl 1):S21--8.
Ntemgwa ML, d'Aquin Toni T, Brenner BG, Camacho RJ, Wainberg MA.
Antiretroviral drug resistance in human immunodeficiency virus type 2.
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2009;53:3611--9.
Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2011.
Available at  .
Accessed July 25, 2011.
MMWR 2008;57(No.
De Cock KM, Porter A, Kouadio J, et al.
Cross-reactivity on Western blots in HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections.
AIDS 1991;5:859--63.
Grieco EM, Trevelyan EN.
Place of birth of the foreign-born population: 2009.
American Community Survey briefs.
Washington, DC: US Census Bureau, 2010.
Available at  .
Accessed July 27, 2011.
Torian LV, Eavey JJ, Punsalang AP, et al.
HIV type 2 in New York City, 2000--2008.
Clin Infect Dis 2010;51:1334--42.
What is already known on this topic?
Of the two types of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-1 accounts for most HIV infections worldwide and, untreated, causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
HIV-2 is rarely reported in the United States, largely confined to persons from West Africa, and less likely to cause AIDS.
Distinguishing between HIV-2 and HIV-1 is important because their clinical management differs; HIV-2 does not respond to some antiretroviral drugs effective on HIV-1, and HIV-2 cannot be measured by HIV-1 viral load tests.
What is added by this report?
Using a working case definition for HIV-2 infection, CDC identified 166 cases diagnosed during 1987--2009.
Most cases (66%) were reported from the Northeast, particularly New York City (46%).
A total of 132 (81%) cases were in persons born in West Africa.
Most (60%) HIV-2 cases had positive HIV-1 immunoblot test results, indicating that the usual tests for HIV-1 infection can misclassify HIV-2 cases as HIV-1 unless other tests (e.g., DNA test or type-differentiating antibody immunoassay) specific for HIV-2 are used.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Specific testing for HIV-2 should be considered if results of tests for HIV-1 are inconsistent with one another, inconclusive, or imply the absence of HIV infection despite clinical evidence suggesting its presence, particularly if the patient is from West Africa.
Suspected HIV-2 cases should be reported to state or local health departments, which can conduct supplemental tests for HIV-2 or arrange for testing at CDC.
If the type of HIV is identified as HIV-2 after an HIV case is reported, the report should be updated with the type specified as HIV-2.
Diagnoses of HIV-2 infection, by laboratory criteria and HIV-1 immunoblot results --- United States, 1987--2009 Positive HIV-2 laboratory test result HIV-1 immunoblot results Total (%) Positive Indeterminate Negative Missing TDAI only 46 2 0 1 49 (30) TDAI + NAT 29 4 0 2 35 (21) TDAI + IB 0 24 1 0 25 (15) IB only 0 24 1 0 25 (15) NAT only 22 1 0 0 23 (14) IB + NAT + TDAI 0 3 1 0 4 (2) IB + NAT 0 4 0 0 4 (2) RIPA 0 1 0 0 1 (1) Total (%) 97 (58) 63 (38) 3 (2) 3 (2) 166 (100) Abbreviations: HIV = human immunodeficiency virus; TDAI = type-differentiating antibody immunoassay positive for HIV-2 and negative for HIV-1; NAT = HIV-2 nucleic acid test (DNA or RNA); IB = positive HIV-2 immunoblot antibody test and negative or indeterminate HIV-1 immunoblot antibody test; RIPA = HIV-2 radioimmunoprecipitation assay.
Number (N = 164*) and percentage of persons receiving diagnoses of HIV-2 infection, by country of birth --- United States, 1987--2009 Country of birth No.
(%)† West Africa 132 (81) Ivory Coast 36 (22) Ghana 15 (9) Cape Verde 13 (8) Gambia 13 (8) Mali 12 (7) Senegal 12 (7) Liberia 10 (6) Guinea 6 (4) Burkina Faso 4 (2) Nigeria 4 (2) Mauritania 2 (1) Sierra Leone 2 (1) Guinea Bissau 1 (1) Togo 1 (1) Niger 1 (1) Other Africa 7 (4) Rwanda 2 (1) Cameroon 1 (1) Kenya 1 (1) South Africa 1 (1) Swaziland 1 (1) Uganda 1 (1) Unspecified Africa 6 (4) India 9 (6) North America 7 (4) Mexico 2 (1) United States 5 (3) Europe 3 (2) France 2 (1) Sweden 1 (1) Total 164 (100) Abbreviation: HIV = human immunodeficiency virus.
* Country of birth was missing for two patients.
† Percentages do not sum to 100 because of rounding.
Number of reported cases of HIV-2 infection, by analytic category* and year of diagnosis --- United States, 1987--2009 Abbreviation: HIV-2 = human immunodeficiency virus--2.
* Retained: 166 cases included in all analyses.
Missing identifiers: 47 reported cases excluded from the analyses because of missing birth dates or other identifiers (including one case diagnosed in 1986 and not shown).
Did not meet working definition: 29 other reported cases excluded from the analyses because they met none of the criteria of the working definition.
In addition, not shown are 20 reported cases with unknown year of diagnosis that also were excluded from analyses.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the number of reported cases of HIV-2 infection by analytic category and year of diagnosis in the United States during 1987-2009.
The annual number of HIV-2 diagnoses in the United States increased significantly from 1987 to 2009; however, the increase might be the result of surveillance artifact.
No significant trends in HIV-2 diagnoses were observed during 1990-1999 (mean: 4.3 diagnoses per year, range: 1-8) or during 2000-2009 (mean: 12.0 per year; range: 8-19).
The annual number increased abruptly from two in 1999 to 12 in 2000, the year that New York began confidential name-based reporting of HIV infection cases in addition to AIDS reporting.
Similar results were obtained when the trend analyses included all suspected cases that were excluded from other analyses.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Weekly December 25, 1992 / 41(51);961-962 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
1993 Revised Classification System for HIV Infection and Expanded Surveillance Case Definition for AIDS Among Adolescents and Adults On December 18, 1992, CDC published a revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and an expanded surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) among adolescents and adults in the United States (1).
* Based on the clinical standard for immunologic monitoring of persons infected with HIV, the revised HIV classification system includes the CD4+ T-lymphocyte measurement in the categorization of HIV-related clinical conditions and replaces the HIV classification system published in 1986 (2).
In addition, the expanded AIDS surveillance case definition includes all HIV-infected persons who have less than 200 CD4+ T-lymphocytes/uL or a CD4+ T-lymphocyte percent of total lymphocytes less than 14, or who have been diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis, invasive cervical cancer, or recurrent pneumonia.
The new AIDS surveillance case definition retains the reporting criteria listed in the 1987 AIDS surveillance case definition (3).
The objectives of the expansion are to reflect more accurately the number of persons with severe HIV-related morbidity and immunosuppression and to simplify the reporting process.
Beginning January 1, 1993, this expanded AIDS surveillance case definition is to be used by all states and territories for AIDS case reporting.
Single copies of the document will be available in mid-January from the CDC National AIDS Clearinghouse, P.O.
Box 6003, Rockville, MD 20849-6003; telephone (800) 458-5231.
References CDC.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1992;41(no.
Classification system for human T-lymphotropic virus type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus infections.
MMWR 1986;35:334- CDC.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36(no.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Learning Connection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About CDC Learning Connection Identify Quality Training Partner Training Resources VIEW ALL View All MARCH 22, 2024 About CDC Learning Connection KEY POINTS CDC Learning Connection carefully curates high-quality training that is federally funded.
Each month, CDC Learning Connection highlights new trainings for public health and healthcare professionals.
You can get regular updates on featured trainings by subscribing to the newsletter.
Overview Subscribe to our newsletter‎ Enter your email address to get monthly updates on quality training.
Join the CDC Learning Connection Newsletter CDC Learning Connection helps public health and healthcare professionals stay informed about quality trainings from CDC and federally funded partners.
We carefully search for high quality trainings that address priority public health topics and each month, we promote featured trainings via a newsletter, social media, and partner outreach.
This service makes it easier for public health professionals to continue to increase their knowledge and skills through curation of relevant trainings.
How We Select Featured Trainings All featured trainings are federally funded, publicly available, and designed for public health and healthcare professionals.
Many offer continuing education (CE).
We use the CDC Quality Training Standards to review trainings for promotion.
Featured trainings must: Meet the definition of training.
Use clear and measurable learning objectives that match training content.
Contain accurate and relevant content.
Include opportunities for learner engagement.
Have a user-friendly interface and navigation.
Include an opportunity for learner assessment that provides feedback to the learner.
Provide follow-up support for the learner.
Have no major technical issues.
We are more likely to promote trainings that: Offer continuing education (CE).
Address an important public health priority.
Have the Quality Training Standards icon in TRAIN .
Are featured on the Public Health Learning Navigator , another source for quality, curated, learning opportunities.
Resources Find thousands of training opportunities, including ones that offer CDC Continuing Education, on CDC TRAIN .
Earn CDC Continuing Education in Training and Continuing Education Online (TCEO).
Learn about CDC funded fellowships and training opportunities.
ON THIS PAGE Overview How We Select Featured Trainings Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Learning Connection We help public health and healthcare professionals stay informed about quality trainings from CDC, other federal agencies, and federally funded partners.
Recommendations and Reports December 5, 2008 / 57(RR10);1-8 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Kathleen Glynn, DVM Kenneth Dominguez, MD Andrew Mitsch, MPH Matthew T.
These case definitions are intended for public health surveillance only and not as a guide for clinical diagnosis.
Public health surveillance data are used primarily for monitoring the HIV epidemic and for planning on a population level, not for making clinical decisions for individual patients.
CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists recommend that all states and territories conduct case surveillance of HIV infection and AIDS using the 2008 surveillance case definitions, effective immediately.
Introduction Since the beginning of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic, case definitions for HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) have undergone several revisions to respond to diagnostic and therapeutic advances and to improve standardization and comparability of surveillance data regarding persons at all stages of HIV disease.
Methods CDC collaborated with the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) to develop the revisions in this report.
CDC obtained additional input through consultations regarding the pediatric case definitions (April 2005) and adult and adolescent case definition (August 2005 and June 2006) and through peer review by health-care professionals, in compliance with the Office of Management and Budget requirements for the dissemination of influential scientific information.
Laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection is now required to meet the surveillance case definition for HIV infection, including stage 3 HIV infection (AIDS).
Diagnostic confirmation of an AIDS-defining condition alone (Appendix A), without laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection, is no longer sufficient to classify an adult or adolescent as HIV infected for surveillance purposes.
The 2007 World Health Organization (WHO) revised surveillance case definition for HIV infection also requires laboratory confirmation of HIV infection (Appendix B).
Historically, the case definition for AIDS included adults and adolescents without laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection if other clinical criteria were met.
Despite these changes, the case definition for AIDS continued to include a subset of adults and adolescents without laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection whose illness still met the surveillance case definition for AIDS.
Because of improvements in diagnostic capabilities and treatment, including increased use of new HIV-testing technologies, CDC collaborated with CSTE to recommend in 2005 an interim change in the AIDS case definition, which required laboratory confirmation of HIV infection.
This CDC/CSTE interim recommendation has been incorporated into the 2008 HIV infection case definition, which includes AIDS (stage 3).
Clinical category A comprised asymptomatic acute or primary HIV infection or persistent generalized lymphadenopathy.
Clinical category B comprised symptomatic conditions in an HIV-infected adult or adolescent that were not included in clinical categories A or C but were attributed to a cell-mediated immunity defect or for which the clinical course or management was complicated by HIV infection.
Clinical category C comprised the 26 AIDS-defining conditions.
In the context of treatment and diagnostic improvements since 1993, clinical categories A and B pose particular difficulties because they include many conditions that are not discrete diseases, are not necessarily indicators of immunodeficiency, poorly match current treatment guidelines, and are not integrated into routine surveillance practices.
The classification system of the 2008 case definition for HIV infection, which includes AIDS, has been simplified, with less emphasis on clinical conditions by elimination of clinical categories A and B while retaining the 26 AIDS-defining conditions in clinical category C (1,2).
The role of CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts and percentages also has been clarified.
The 2008 case definition highlights the central role of the CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts and percentages, which are objective measures of immunosuppression that are routinely used in the care of HIV-infected persons and are available to surveillance programs.
The three CD4+ T-lymphocyte count categories have been renamed for HIV infection, increasing in severity from stage 1 through stage 3 (AIDS); an unknown stage also is included.
For surveillance purposes, HIV disease progression is classified from less to more severe; once cases are classified into a surveillance severity stage, they cannot be reclassified into a less severe stage.
Thus, compared with infants categorized using the previous surveillance case definition, fewer HIV-exposed infants who have a very low probability of infection will be categorized as having indeterminate infections (3).
Because of the greater uncertainty associated with diagnostic testing for HIV in this population (i.e., because maternal antibodies from the HIV-infected mother might exist in the infant after birth, possibly affecting HIV diagnostic testing of the infant that occurs soon after birth), children in this age group whose illness meets clinical criteria for the AIDS case definition but does not meet laboratory criteria for definitive or presumptive HIV infection are still categorized as HIV infected when the mother has laboratory-confirmed HIV infection.
Diagnostic confirmation of an AIDS-defining condition alone, without laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection, is no longer sufficient to classify a child as HIV infected for surveillance purposes (1,3,4).
The case definition is intended for public health surveillance only and not as a guide for clinical diagnosis.
The definition applies to all HIV variants (e.g., HIV-1 or HIV-2) and excludes confirmation of HIV infection through diagnosis of AIDS-defining conditions alone.
Case Classification A confirmed case meets the laboratory criteria for diagnosis of HIV infection and one of the four HIV infection stages (stage 1, stage 2, stage 3, or stage unknown) (Table).
Although cases with no information on CD4+ T-lymphocyte count or percentage and no information on AIDS-defining conditions can be classified as stage unknown, every effort should be made to report CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or percentages and the presence of AIDS-defining conditions at the time of diagnosis.
Additional CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or percentages and any identified AIDS-defining conditions can be reported as recommended (6).
HIV Infection, Stage 2 No AIDS-defining condition and either CD4+ T-lymphocyte count of 200--499 cells/µL or CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage of total lymphocytes of 14--28.
Definitive diagnostic methods for these conditions are available in Appendix C of the 1993 revised HIV classification system and the expanded AIDS case definition (2) and from the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (available at 
HIV Infection, Stage Unknown No information available on CD4+ T-lymphocyte count or percentage and no information available on AIDS-defining conditions.
(Every effort should be made to report CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or percentages and the presence of AIDS-defining conditions at the time of diagnosis.) Discussion To meet the surveillance case definition for HIV infection among adults and adolescents, laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection is required.
The lowest CD4+ T-lymphocyte count (or concordant CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage of total lymphocytes) or the presence of AIDS-defining conditions is used to determine the stage of infection.
If the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count and the CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage are both available but do not correspond to the same severity stage, select the more severe stage.
For surveillance purposes, disease progression is from less to more severe; once cases are classified in a more severe surveillance stage, they cannot be reclassified into a less severe surveillance stage.
A diagnosis of acute HIV infection indicates documented evidence of detectable HIV RNA or DNA or of p24 antigen in plasma or serum in the presence of a documented negative or indeterminate result from an HIV antibody test.
These laboratory tests should be conducted on the same specimen or on specimens obtained on the same day.
Acute HIV infection occurs approximately during the time from viral acquisition until seroconversion (i.e., the development of measurable levels of HIV-specific antibodies).
During this period, early immune responses to the virus produce distinctive characteristics; 40% to 80% of patients develop clinical symptoms of a nonspecific viral illness (e.g., fever, fatigue, or rash) typically lasting 1--2 weeks (7--12).
Acute HIV infection often is not detected because the date of HIV acquisition is unknown, no specific clinical signs are present, no single laboratory marker is present, and the diagnostic window is small.
High viral loads typically are associated with acute HIV infection, potentially increasing the risk for transmission.
CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts have decreased in certain patients with acute HIV infection, especially during the months immediately following viral acquisition (7,11,12).
However, the viral load and CD4+ T-lymphocyte count usually stabilize once equilibrium is reached between HIV and the immune response (i.e., the viral set point).
The changing CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts associated with acute HIV infection might have implications when using these counts to stage HIV infection for surveillance purposes; for example, persons might experience a particularly low, but temporary, CD4+ T-lymphocyte count and be categorized as having a more severe stage of HIV infection than they actually have after reaching the viral set point.
The 2008 definition is intended for public health surveillance only and not as a guide for clinical diagnosis.
The 2008 definition takes into account new available testing technologies.
The definitive or presumptive exclusion of HIV infection for surveillance purposes does not mean that clinical HIV infection can be ruled out.
For the purposes of calculating the exact timing of tests (e.g., when a specimen was obtained for laboratory testing) based on the surveillance case definition, 1 month corresponds to 30 days.
Other Criteria (for Cases that Do Not Meet Laboratory Criteria for Definitive or Presumptive HIV Infection) HIV infection diagnosed by a physician or qualified medical-care provider based on the laboratory criteria and documented in a medical record.
Oral reports of prior laboratory test results are not acceptable.
or When test results regarding HIV infection status are not available, documentation of a condition that meets the criteria in the 1987 pediatric surveillance case definition for AIDS (1) (Appendix A).
and No other laboratory or clinical evidence of HIV infection (i.e., no subsequent positive results from virologic tests if tests were performed, and no AIDS-defining condition for which no other underlying condition indicative of immunosuppression exists) (Appendix A).
Other Criteria (for Cases that Do Not Meet Laboratory Criteria for Uninfected with HIV, Definitive or Presumptive) Determination of uninfected with HIV by a physician or qualified medical-care provider based on the laboratory criteria and who has noted the HIV diagnostic test results in the medical record.
Oral reports of prior laboratory test results are not acceptable.
Discussion The exclusion of HIV infection (definitive or presumptive) for surveillance purposes does not mean that clinical HIV infection can be ruled out.
These categories are used for surveillance classification purposes and should not be used to guide clinical practice.
A child with perinatal HIV exposure should continue to be monitored clinically according to nationally accepted treatment and care guidelines (17--19) to 1) monitor for potential complications of exposure to antiretroviral medications during the perinatal period and 2) confirm the absence of HIV infection with repeat clinical and laboratory evaluations.
They are intended for public health surveillance only and are not a guide for clinical diagnosis.
or Positive result or a detectable quantity by any of the following HIV virologic (non-antibody) tests***: -- HIV nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) detection (e.g., PCR) -- HIV p24 antigen test, including neutralization assay -- HIV isolation (viral culture) Other Criterion (for Cases that Do Not Meet Laboratory Criteria) HIV infection diagnosed by a physician or qualified medical-care provider based on the laboratory criteria and documented in a medical record.
Oral reports of prior laboratory test results are not acceptable.
Because the 2008 definition requires that all AIDS diagnoses have laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection, the presence of any AIDS-defining condition listed in Appendix A indicates a surveillance diagnosis of AIDS.
Guidance on the diagnosis of these diseases in the context of all nationally notifiable diseases is available at 
These revisions will increase the specificity of the HIV infection and AIDS surveillance case definitions by excluding patients without laboratory-confirmed evidence of HIV infection, reinforcing the public health message that HIV infection is the cause of AIDS.
Improved specificity will provide more accurate data regarding number of HIV infection cases, which can be used to refine public health policies and determine appropriate use of HIV resources.
Acknowledgments This report is based, in part, on contributions by Bernard Branson, MD, Tonji Durant, PhD, Mary Glenn Fowler, MD, Lisa M.
Lee, PhD, Kathleen McDavid Harrison, PhD, Nan Ruffo, Richard Selik, MD, Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Irum Zaidi, MPH, Keith Sabin, PhD, Theresa Diaz, MD, Division of Global AIDS, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Christine L.
Mattson, PhD, EIS Officer, CDC; Stephanie Broyles, PhD, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Victoria Cargill, MD, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland; Laura Cheever, MD, Health Resources and Services Administration, Rockville, Maryland; Peter Havens, MD, Medical College of Wisconsin and Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Ellen Moore, MD, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, Michigan; Pauline Thomas, MD, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey; and Jesus Maria Garcia Calleja, MD, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
References CDC.
Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1987;36(Suppl 1):1--15.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
MMWR 1992;41(No.
Guidelines for national human immunodeficiency virus case surveillance, including monitoring for human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
MMWR 1999;48(No.
1994 Revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children less than 13 years of age.
MMWR 1994;43(No.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
Available at 
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
Laboratory reporting of clinical test results indicative of HIV infection: new standards for a new era of surveillance and prevention (Position Statement 04-ID-07); 2004.
Available at 
Kahn JO, Walker BD.
Acute human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection.
N Engl J Med 1998;339:33--9.
Pilcher CD, Eron JJ Jr, Galvin S, Gay C, Cohen MS.
Acute HIV revisited: new opportunities for treatment and prevention.
J Clin Invest 2004;113:937--45.
Erratum in: J Clin Invest 2006;116:3292.
Soogoor M, Daar ES.
Primary human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection.
Curr HIV/AIDS Rep 2005;2:55--60.
Stekler J, Collier AC.
Primary HIV infection.
Curr HIV/AIDS Rep 2004;1:68--73.
Schacker TW, Hughes JP, Shea T, Coombs RW, Corey L.
Biological and virologic characteristics of primary HIV infection.
Ann Intern Med 1998;128:613--20.
Zetola NM, Pilcher CD.
Diagnosis and management of acute HIV infection.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 2007;21:19--48.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
Available at 
Peter JB, Sevall JS.
Molecular-based methods for quantifying HIV viral load.
AIDS Patient Care STDs 2004;18:75--9.
Lelie PN, van Drimmelen HA, Cuypers HT, et al.
Sensitivity of HCV RNA and HIV RNA blood screening assays.
Transfusion 2002;42:527--36.
Gallarda JL, Dragon E.
Blood screening by nucleic acid amplification technology: current issues, future challenges.
Mol Diagn 2000;5:11--22.
Working Group on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children.
Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection; 2008.
Available at 
Perinatal HIV Guidelines Working Group; Public Health Service Task Force.
Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant HIV-infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce perinatal HIV transmission in the United States; 2008.
Available at 
King SM, Committee on Pediatric AIDS (American Academy of Pediatrics), Infectious Diseases and Immunization Committee (Canadian Paediatric Society).
Evaluation and treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus-1--exposed infant.
Pediatrics 2004;114:497--505.
Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.
Available at 
* Rapid tests are EIAs that do not have to be repeated but require a confirmatory test if reactive.
Most conventional EIAs require a repeatedly reactive EIA that is confirmed by a positive result with a supplemental test for HIV antibody.
Standard laboratory testing procedures should always be followed.
† For HIV screening, HIV virologic (non-antibody) tests should not be used in lieu of approved HIV antibody screening tests.
A negative result (i.e., undetectable or nonreactive) from an HIV virologic test (e.g., viral RNA nucleic acid test) does not rule out the diagnosis of HIV infection.
§ Qualified medical-care providers might differ by jurisdiction and might include physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, or nurse midwives.
¶ An original or copy of the laboratory report is preferred; however, in the rare instance the laboratory report is not available, a description of the laboratory report results by a physician or qualified medical-care provider documented in the medical record is acceptable for surveillance purposes.
Every effort should be made to obtain a copy of the laboratory report for documentation in the medical record.
Although HIV culture can be used, culture is less standardized and less sensitive than nucleic acid detection tests.
Commercial tests for RNA and DNA detection have become widely available.
Quantitative RNA tests have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for monitoring HIV infection, and qualitative RNA tests have been approved to aid diagnosis.
The quantitative and qualitative RNA tests meet FDA standards for high analytic and clinical sensitivity and specificity (14--16).
All available tests detect the subtypes of group M and strains of group O.
HIV-2 can be diagnosed with HIV-2 DNA PCR.
HIV RNA tests sometimes do not detect HIV-2 because the viral loads in some HIV-2--infected persons are below detectable levels.
Because of the possibility of mutation or recombination involving the sequences detected by a particular test, occasionally, virus might not be detected in a specimen from an HIV-2 infected individual.
If HIV-2 infection seems likely but results are negative, testing with a different assay might be advisable.
A negative result (i.e., undetectable or nonreactive) by an HIV virologic test (e.g., viral RNA nucleic acid test) does not rule out the diagnosis of HIV infection.
CDC Adult/Adolescent HIV/AIDS Surveillance Case Definition Consultation, August 2005 External Consultants: Kathryn Anastos, MD, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York; Chris Archibald, MDCM, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; John Barnhart, National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors, Washington, DC; Samuel A.
Bozzette, MD, PhD, RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California; Txema Calleja, MD, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland; Charles C.J.
Carpenter, MD, University Medicine Foundation, Inc., Providence, Rhode Island; Siobhan Crowley, MB, MRCP, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland; Richard Davey, MD, National Institues of Health, Bethesda, Maryland; Eric A.
Engels, MD, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland; Douglas Frye, MD, Los Angeles County HIV Epidemiology Program, Los Angeles, California; Donna Futterman, MD, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, New York; Becky Grigg, Florida Department of Health, Tallahassee, Florida; Françoise Hamers, EuroHIV, Saint Maurice Cedex, France; W.
Claire Hicks, MD, Georgia Department of Public Health, Jesup, Georgia; Scott Holmberg, MD, Research Triangle Institute (RTI) International, Atlanta, Georgia; Jack Jourden, MPH, Washington State Department of Health, Olympia, Washington; Alice Kroliczak, PhD, Health Resources and Services Adminstration, Rockville, Maryland; Alan Lifson, MD, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota; Norman Markowitz, MD, The Community Program for Clinical Research on AIDS, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, Michigan; Anthony Merriweather, Alabama Department of Public Health, Montgomery, Alabama; Frank J.
Palella, MD, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois; Jennifer Pennock, MSc, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Timothy R.
Sterling, MD, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tenessee; Karen T.
Tashima, MD, Brown Medical School, Providence, Rhode Island; Pablo Tebas, MD, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Lucia V.
Torian, PhD, New York City Department of Health, New York, New York.
CDC Staff Members: Theresa Diaz, MD; M.
Kathleen Glynn, DVM; Lisa M.
Lee, PhD; Matthew T.
McKenna, MD; Andrew Mitsch, MPH; Eileen Schneider, MD; Patrick Sullivan, DVM, PhD.
CDC Adult/Adolescent HIV Surveillance Case Definition Consultation, June 2006 External Consultants: A.
Cornelius Baker, National Black Gay Men's Advocacy Coalition, Washington, DC; John Barnhart, MPH, National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors, Washington, DC; Spencer Bennett, MPH, Florida Bureau of Laboratories, Jacksonville, Florida; Laura Cheever, MD, ScM, Health Resources and Services Adminstration, Rockville, Maryland; Michael D'Arata, FNP, Family Care Network, Oakland, California; Isabelle Devaux, PhD, EuroHIV, Saint Maurice Cedex, France ; Damon Dozier, National Minority AIDS Council, Washington, DC; Judith Feinberg, MD, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio; Eberhard Fiebig, MD, University of California, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California; Lance Gable, JD, Georgetown University Law Center, Washington, DC; James Gibson, MD, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Columbia, South Carolina; Charles Gilks, D Phil, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland; David Harvey, AIDS Alliance for Women, Children Youth and Families, Washington, DC; Jennifer Kates, MPA, MA, Kaiser Family Foundation, Washington, DC; Lynda Kettinger, MPH, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Columbia, South Carolina; Peter Leone, MD, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Eve Mokotoff, MPH, Michigan Department of Community Health, Detroit, Michigan; Israel Nieves-Rivera, San Francisco Department of Public Health, San Francisco, California; Jennifer Pennock, MSc, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Monica S.
Ruiz, PhD, The Foundation for AIDS Research, Washington, DC; R.
Luke Shouse, MD, Georgia Division of Public Health, Atlanta, Georgia; Gregory I.
Smiley, MPH, American Academy of HIV Medicine, Washington DC; Andrew Spieldenner, MA, National Association of People With AIDS, Silver Spring, Maryland; Edward Tepporn, Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum, San Francisco, California; Steven Tierney, EdD, San Francisco AIDS Foundation, San Francisco, California.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; Theresa Diaz, MD; M.
Kathleen Glynn, DVM; Duncan MacKellar, MPH; Stephen McDougal, MD; Matthew T.
McKenna, MD; Andrew Mitsch, MPH; Allyn Nakashima, MD; Michelle Owen, PhD; Travis Sanchez, DVM; Eileen Schneider, MD.
CDC Pediatric HIV Surveillance Case Definition Consultation, April 2005 External Consultants: John Barnhart, MPH, National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors, Washington, DC; Mark Cotton MB ChB, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, South Africa; Siobhan Crowley, MB, MRCP, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland; Brian Feit, MPA, Health Resources Services Administration, Rockville, Maryland; Susan Fiscus, PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Pat Flynn, MD, St.
Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee; Toni Frederick, PhD, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California; Edward Handelsman, MD, SUNY Downstate/Kings County Hospital Center, Brooklyn, New York; Celine Hanson, MD, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas; Peter Havens, MD, Medical College of Wisconsin; Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Israel Kalyesubula, MB ChB, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda; Sharon Melville, MD, Texas Department of State Health Services, Austin, Texas; Lynne Mofenson, MD, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland; Steven Nesheim, MD, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Marie-Louise Newell, PhD, Institute of Child Health, London, United Kingdom; James Oleske, MD, MPH, New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey; Mary Paul, MD, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas; Vicki Peters, MD, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Kenneth Rich, MD, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago; Illinois, Damaris Richardson, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Baltimore, Maryland; Zoe Rodriguez, MD, University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico; Christine Rouzioux, PhD, Hôpital Necker--Laboratorie de Virologie, Paris, France; Andrea Ruff, MD, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Gwendolyn.
Scott, MD, University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, Florida; Mary Elizabeth Smith, MD, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland; Russell Van Dyke, MD, Tulane University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, Louisiana; Barbara Warren, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York; Patricia Whitley-Williams, MD, New Brunswick, New Jersey.
CDC Staff Members: Bernard Branson, MD; Michael Campsmith, DDS; Kenneth Dominguez, MD; Mary Jo Earp, MPH; Lorena Espinoza, DDS; Mary Glenn Fowler, MD; M.
Kathleen Glynn, DVM; Norma Harris, PhD; Matthew T.
McKenna, MD; Andrew Mitsch, MPH; Alpa Patel-Larson, MPH; Ruby Phelps; Nan Ruffo; Stephanie Sansom, PhD; Suzanne Whitmore, DrPH.
Members of the CDC Pediatric Surveillance Case Definition for HIV Infection and AIDS Working Group Michael Campsmith, DDS; Kenneth Dominguez, MD; Steve McDougal, MD; Andrew Mitsch, MPH; Alpa Patel-Larson, MPH; Nan Ruffo; Alexis Reedy Benavides, MPH; Allan Taylor, MD; Suzanne Whitmore, DrPH.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports July 17, 1992 / 41(RR12);1-9 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Testing for Antibodies to Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 2 in the United States Please note: This guideline document is obsolete and may not reflect current evidence or best practice and likely contains out-of-date information.
To view the update, please click here.
This report was prepared by the following: Thomas R.
O'Brien, M.D., M.P.H.
Richard George, Ph.D.
Epstein, M.D.
** Scott D.
Holmberg, M.D., M.P.H.
* Gerald Schochetman, Ph.D.
* Centers for Disease Control ** Food and Drug Administration Summary The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recommended that all donated blood be screened for antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) beginning no later than June 1, 1992.
This article provides CDC recommendations for the diagnosis of HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections in persons being tested in settings other than blood centers and CDC/FDA guidelines for serologic testing with combination HIV-1/HIV-2 screening enzyme immunoassays (EIAs).
Epidemiologic data indicate that the prevalence of HIV-2 infections in persons in the United States is extremely low.
Therefore, CDC does not recommend routine testing for HIV-2 in settings other than blood centers.
However, when HIV testing is indicated, tests for antibodies to both HIV-1 and HIV-2 should be obtained if epidemiologic risk factors for HIV-2 infection are present, if clinical evidence exists for HIV disease in the absence of a positive test for antibodies to HIV-1, or if HIV-1 Western blot results exhibit the unusual indeterminate pattern of gag plus pol bands in the absence of env bands.
The following procedures are recommended if testing for both HIV-1 and HIV-2 is performed by means of a combination HIV-1/HIV-2 EIA.
A repeatedly reactive specimen by HIV-1/HIV-2 EIA should be tested by HIV-1 Western blot (or another licensed HIV-2 supplemental test).
A positive result by HIV-1 Western blot confirms the presence of antibodies to HIV, and testing for HIV-2 is recommended only if HIV-2 risk factors are present.
If the HIV-1 Western blot result is negative or indeterminate, an HIV-2 EIA should be performed.
If the HIV-2 EIA is positive, an HIV-2 supplemental test should be performed.
INTRODUCTION Efforts to prevent transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), particularly through the blood supply, led to the rapid development in 1985 of diagnostic tests for HIV-1 antibodies.
In 1986, a second virus causing the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), was discovered and found to be relatively common in parts of West Africa (1-3).
Because HIV-2 infections are not always detected by HIV-1 antibody tests (4), antibody tests for HIV-2 have been developed.
On April 25, 1990, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) licensed an enzyme immunoassay (EIA) test kit for detection of antibodies to HIV-2 in human serum or plasma.
The test, Genetic Systems HIV-2 EIA, manufactured and distributed by Genetic Systems Corp., Redmond, WA, is based on a disrupted whole-virus antigen obtained by purification of HIV-2 grown in cell culture.
Licensure of the HIV-2 EIA raised the possibility of routine donor screening for HIV-2.
However, after public discussion at the FDA Blood Products Advisory Committee meeting in March 1990, FDA decided not to recommend routine anti-HIV-2 screening of blood donated for transfusion.
This decision was based on the collective evidence that HIV-2 infection in the United States was extremely rare (5).
There was also reluctance to increase the complexity of testing performed by blood centers by introducing an additional test, of limited usefulness, to the battery of tests already being performed.
However, voluntary screening for HIV-2 antibodies by blood banks was considered to be an acceptable practice.
On September 25, 1991, FDA licensed the Genetic Systems HIV-1/HIV-2 EIA and on February 14, 1992, licensed the HIVAB HIV-1/HIV-2 (rDNA) EIA (Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, IL).
These tests permit simultaneous testing for both HIV-1 and HIV-2 without increasing the number of screening tests performed by blood banks.
Bethesda, MD: Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, FDA, April 23, 1992).
Blood centers can accomplish this either by the use of a single combination test for HIV-1/HIV-2 or by the use of two independent tests, one for HIV-1 and one for HIV-2.
Screening donated blood and plasma for HIV-2 infection raises issues concerning appropriate strategies for testing for both viruses, HIV-2 testing in other settings, and notification of HIV-1 and HIV-2 test results.
This article provides CDC recommendations for the diagnosis of HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections in persons being tested in settings other than blood centers and CDC/FDA guidelines for serologic testing with combination HIV-1/HIV-2 screening EIAs.
EPIDEMIOLOGIC STUDIES Although HIV-2 appears to have spread in West Africa primarily via heterosexual transmission (3), HIV-2 infection has been reported in Europe in homosexual men (6), injecting drug users (IDUs) (7), transfusion recipients (8,9), and men with hemophilia (10).
HIV-2 is endemic in parts of West Africa (3, 11, 12) and has also been reported in other parts of Africa (3) Table_1.
Apparently as a result of links with former colonies in West Africa, Portugal and France have reported the highest number of cases of HIV-2 infection in Europe (13).
As of late 1989, 12.6% of AIDS cases in Portugal were caused by HIV-2 (14).
Although most of these cases were in persons originally from Africa, HIV-2 is also present among persons in Portugal with no known contacts with Africa.
HIV-2 infection has also been reported in India (15).
In the Western hemisphere, rare cases of HIV-2 infection have been reported from Brazil(16, 17), Canada (18), and the United States (5).
Within the United States, CDC and others conduct surveillance for HIV-2, including serologic surveillance of blood donors and populations at increased risk of HIV-1 infection.
Since 1987, 32 persons with HIV-2 infection have been reported in the United States.
Fifteen of these 32 were identified by serologic surveillance, and 17 were identified by case reports.
Twenty-eight were residing in the northeastern United States (5), a frequent destination for West African immigrants and the area that has been most intensely surveyed using HIV-2-specific tests.
No cases of HIV-2 infection have been reported among persons known to be IDUs or men reporting homosexual contact (5).
More than 2,700 serum specimens that were reactive by HIV-1 EIA and indeterminate by HIV-1 Western blot have been tested for HIV-2 by either the New York City Health Department or the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (5, 19).
HIV-2 infection was detected in specimens from 11 persons.
The Massachusetts Department of Public Health (5) identified two HIV-2-positive specimens among blood samples from 14,779 childbearing women.
Positive HIV-2 specimens were detected among sera from two of 19,504 clients of sexually transmitted disease clinics, but in none of the specimens from 6,547 IDUs at drug-treatment centers (20).
In other studies of populations at increased risk for HIV-1 infection, no cases of HIV-2 infection have been reported (5).
residents found to be positive for HIV-2 infection through serologic surveillance, demographic information was available for seven; six were West Africans and one was the U.S.-born wife of an HIV-2 infected West African (5).
Most of the 17 persons identified by case reports were West Africans residing in the United States, but one was a U.S.
resident of European origin and two were native-born U.S.
citizens (5).
All three non-West Africans had traveled to West Africa.
One native-born U.S.
citizen was diagnosed as HIV-2 infected after volunteering to donate blood in 1986.
However, serologic surveillance of more than 26,000,000 blood donations collected between 1987 and 1991 has not revealed another instance of an HIV-2 infected U.S.
blood donor (21-25).
DIAGNOSIS OF HIV-2 INFECTION Although considerable serologic cross-reaction occurs between HIV-1 and HIV-2, HIV-2 infection may not be diagnosed when screening is done exclusively with HIV-1 tests.
From 60% to 91% of HIV-2-infected persons will test repeatedly reactive by HIV-1 whole-virus lysate EIA (4).
However, analogous to the diagnosis of HIV-1 infection, diagnosis of HIV-2 infection requires more specific supplemental tests, such as an HIV-2 Western blot.
Although no licensed supplemental tests exist for HIV-2 infection, research tests are available.
Several European and U.S.
biotechnology companies manufacture HIV-2 Western blot tests.
Studies of these tests have been performed by manufacturers of HIV test kits, by state and local public health laboratories, and by CDC (26,27).
The diversity of protein bands, especially glycoprotein bands, is greater on the HIV-2 Western blot tests than on HIV-1 Western blot tests (28).
This variation occurs because the various HIV-2 Western blot tests use different strains of HIV-2 and because of the different methods by which HIV-2 antigens are prepared before separation by electrophoresis (28).
No one test appears to have a distinct advantage.
Therefore, although public health laboratories would benefit from a standard HIV-2 Western blot test format to which a single set of interpretive criteria could be applied, a single standard currently cannot be applied to all tests.
CDC recommends that each test be interpreted by the criteria suggested by the kit manufacturer.
Other investigational tests for antibodies to HIV-2, such as immunofluorescence (29), EIAs based on HIV-1 and HIV-2 synthetic peptides (30), and radioimmune precipitation (31), can be useful in distinguishing a true positive HIV-2 EIA screening test result.
Gene amplification by polymerase chain reaction (17) and viral culture (32) can also be used to determine the virus type.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HIV-2 TESTING IN THE UNITED STATES Indications for Testing for HIV-2 Infection Because epidemiologic data indicate that the prevalence of HIV-2 in the United States is extremely low, CDC does not recommend routine testing for HIV-2 at U.S.
HIV counseling and test sites or in settings other than blood centers.
However, when HIV testing is to be performed, tests for antibodies to both HIV-1 and HIV-2 should be obtained if demographic or behavioral information suggests that HIV-2 infection might be present.
Persons at risk for HIV-2 infection include: Sex partners of a person from a country where HIV-2 is endemic (this category includes persons originally from such countries).
Sex partners of a person known to be infected with HIV-2.
Persons who received a transfusion of blood or a nonsterile injection in a country where HIV-2 is endemic.
Persons who shared needles with a person from a country where HIV-2 is endemic or with a person known to be infected with HIV-2.
Children of women who have risk factors for HIV-2 infection or who are known to be infected with HIV-2.
Additionally, testing for HIV-2 is indicated when there is clinical evidence for or suspicion of HIV disease (such as an AIDS-associated opportunistic infection)in the absence of a positive test for antibodies to HIV-1 and in cases in which the HIV-1 Western blot exhibits the unusual indeterminate pattern of gag (p55, p24, or p17) plus pol (p66, p51, or p32) bands in the absence of env (gp160, gp120, Or gp41) bands.
Other Considerations The potential risk of HIV-2 infection in some populations (such as those described above) may justify routine HIV-2 testing for all persons for whom HIV-1 testing is warranted.
The decision to implement routine HIV-2 testing requires consideration of the number of HIV-2-infected persons who would remain undiagnosed without routine HIV-2 testing compared with the problems and costs associated with its implementation.
Because implementation of routine HIV-2 testing would increase the number of tests performed on some specimens and because confirmatory testing for HIV-2 would be limited to laboratories that perform nonlicensed HIV-2 supplemental tests, the maximum "turnaround" time required to complete HIV testing would increase for some specimens.
At HIV counseling and test sites, clients might require an additional appointment after the routine post-test counseling session to receive HIV-2 test results and HIV-2 post-test counseling.
Another factor to consider when routine HIV-2 testing is being contemplated is the predictive value of HIV-2 antibody screening tests in most U.S.
populations.
Given the extremely low prevalence of HIV-2 in the United States, very few persons who test positive by HIV-2 antibody screening tests will actually be HIV-2 infected In addition, HIV-2 testing may identify persons with indeterminate HIV-2 test results that must be explained to the patient and appropriate follow-up initiated.
Finally, implementation of routine HIV-2 testing would increase HIV testing costs, as HIV-1/HIV-2 combination EIAs are more expensive than HIV-1 EIAs, and testing with HIV-2 EIAs and supplemental tests would be required for some specimens.
GUIDELINES FOR SEROLOGIC TESTING WITH COMBINATION HIV-1/HIV-2 SCREENING EIAs Laboratories that use a licensed combination HIV-1/HIV-2 screening test should follow the testing algorithm recommended by CDC and FDA Figure_1.
If a combination test for HIV-1/HIV-2 is performed and is repeatedly reactive, additional, more specific testing is necessary to confirm the presence of antibodies either to HIV-1 or HIV-2 as follows: A repeatedly reactive specimen determined by a combination HIV-1/HIV-2 EIA should be tested for antibodies to HIV-1 by a licensed Western blot or other licensed HIV-1 supplemental test.
A positive HIV-1 Western blot confirms the presence of antibodies to HIV.
Although this result does not always distinguish between antibodies to HIV-1 and HIV-2, further testing is not required for routine purposes.
If the HIV-1 Western blot result is negative or indeterminate, an EIA for HIV-2 only (HIV-2 EIA) should be performed.
If the HIV-1 Western blot is negative and HIV-2 EIA is not repeatedly reactive, the specimen should be considered negative for HIV antibodies.
If the HIV-1 Western blot is indeterminate and the HIV-2 EIA is not repeatedly reactive, the specimen should be considered indeterminate and the person should be advised to have follow-up testing 6 months later to exclude the possibility of early infection with HIV-1, especially if risk factors are present.
Persons should be counseled to follow risk-reduction guidelines during the intervening 6 months (33).
If the HIV-1 immunofluorescence assay (IFA) is used as the supplemental test, positive and negative IFA results should be interpreted in the same manner as similar results from Western blot tests.
However, with an indeterminate IFA (both infected and uninfected cells fluoresce), neither positive nor negative interpretation of the test is possible.
Therefore, the specimen should be tested by HIV-1 Western blot.
Further testing and counseling are determined by the results of the Western blot.
If the HIV-2 EIA is repeatedly reactive, an HIV-2 supplemental test should be performed.
Until an FDA-licensed supplemental test for HIV-2 becomes available, specimens requiring supplemental testing for HIV-2 should be sent to the appropriate state public health laboratory.
Only those sera that are repeatedly reactive by the combination HIV-1/HIV-2 test, negative or indeterminate by the HIV-1 Western blot, and positive by the licensed HIV-2 EIA should be sent for supplemental HIV-2 testing.
An exception to this rule would be a person with a positive result by HIV-1 Western blot, but with demographic risk factors for HIV-2 infection.
Retesting with a second specimen should be considered for persons who have positive results by HIV-1 or HIV-2 Western blot at first testing.
MEDICAL COUNSELING Infection with either HIV-1 or HIV-2 can cause immunosuppression and the development of AIDS (34,35).
Although the period between infection and disease may be longer for persons with HIV-2 than for those with HIV-1 (36,37), the modes of transmission and, therefore, preventive counseling are the same for persons with either virus.
Furthermore, because data are limited regarding the effectiveness of antiviral therapy for HIV-2 infection, persons with a confirmed antibody test for HIV-2 should be managed similarly to persons with a confirmed antibody test for HIV-1.
Additional testing to define the virus type is of epidemiologic importance and should be considered for persons with epidemiologic risk factors for infection with HIV-2.
Based on the epidemiology and prevalence of HIV-2 in the United States, CDC/FDA makes the following recommendations for notification of persons with repeatedly reactive combination screening tests for HIV-1/HIV-2.
If the HIV-1 Western blot is positive, the person should be considered to be HIV infected and counseled and managed as if infected with HIV-1.
In infants, detection of antibodies soon after birth may indicate either infection or the presence of maternal HIV antibodies.
Seropositive infants require additional follow-up to determine their HIV status.
If the HIV-1 Western blot is negative and HIV-2 EIA is not repeatedly reactive, the person should be informed that the test results for HIV infection are negative.
If an HIV-2 EIA is repeatedly reactive for a person with a negative or indeterminate HIV-1 Western blot, post-test counseling will depend on the results of the HIV-2 supplemental test.
A person should not be diagnosed or counseled about HIV-2 infection on the basis of a repeatedly reactive HIV-2 EIA alone.
in the absence of known epidemiologic risk factors for HIV-2 infection, the vast majority of specimens from persons in the United States with a repeatedly reactive HIV-2 EIA and negative or indeterminate HIV-1 Western blot will represent false-positive results.
If the HIV-2 supplemental test is negative, a person whose specimen was negative by HIV-1 Western blot, in the absence of recognized epidemiologic risk factors, should be considered to be uninfected with HIV and counseled accordingly.
A person whose specimen was indeterminate by HIV-1 Western blot should be followed as previously recommended (38).
If the HIV-2 supplemental test is positive, the person should be considered to be HIV infected and counseled and managed accordingly.
The case should be reported to the state department of public health as presumptive HIV-2 infection.
If the HIV-2 supplemental test is indeterminate, the person should have follow-up testing 6 months later to exclude the possibility of early infection with HIV-1 or HIV-2.
If an HIV-2 EIA is not repeatedly reactive for a person with an indeterminate HIV-1 Western blot, the person should be followed as previously recommended (38).
References Clavel F, Guetard D, Brun-Vezinet F, et al.
Isolation of a new human retrovirus from West African patients with AIDS.
Science 1986;233: 343-6.
Guyader M, Emerman M, Sonigo P, Clavel F, Montagnier L, Alizon M.
Genome organization and transactivation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 2.
Nature 1987;326:662-9.
De Cock KM, Brun-Vezinet F.
Epidemiology of HIV-2 infection.
AIDS 1989;3(suppl 1):S89-S95.
George JR, Rayfield M, Phillips S, et al.
Efficacies of US Food and Drug Administration licensed HIV-1-screening enzyme immunoassays for detecting antibodies to HIV-2.
AIDS 1990;4:321-6.
O'Brien TR, George JR, Holmberg SD.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 2 infection in the United States: epidemiology, diagnosis, and public health implications.
JAMA 1992;267: 2775-9.
Brucker G, Brun-Vezinet F, Rosenheim M, Rey MA, Katlama C, Gentilini M.
Lancet 1987;1:223.
Benito-Garcia A, Faria A, Ayres L, Avillez F.
HIV-2 seroprevalence among the population attending the AIDS reference laboratory in Portugal (abstract M.C.3019).
VII International Conference on AIDS, Florence, June 15-21, 1991.
Rouzioux C, Burgard M, Courgnaud V, et al.
Isolation of HIV in a HIVl-HIV2 dual seroconverted child infected by blood transfusion in 1984 in France: characterization with PCR (abstract Th.C.P.21 ).
V International Conference on AIDS, Montreal, June 4-9, 1989.
Dufoort G, Courouce A-M, Ancell-Park R, Bletry O.
Lancet 1988;2:510.
Simon F, Puel J, Hammer R, et al.
HIV-2 infection in 2 European hemophiliac patients (abstract T.B.P.109).
V International Conference on AIDS, Montreal, June 4-9, 1989.
Horsburgh CR Jr, Holmberg SD.
The global distribution of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) infection.
Transfusion 1988;28: 192-5.
De Cock KM, Brun-Vezinet F, Soro B.
HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections and AIDS in West Africa.
AIDS 1991;5(suppl 1):S21-S28.
Smallman-Raynor M, Cliff A.
The spread of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 into Europe: a geographical analysis.
Int J Epidemiol 1991;20:480-9.
Benito-Garcia A, Goncalves H, Pista A, et al, HIV-2 in Portugal: situation in 1990 (abstract F.C.662).
VI International Conference on AIDS, San Francisco, June 20-23, 1990.
Rubsamen-Waigmann H, Breisen HV, Maniar JK, Rao PK, Scholz C, Pfutzner A.
Lancet 1991;337:550-1.
Veronesi R, Mazza CC, Santos-Ferreira MO, Lourenco MH.
Lancet 1987;2:402.
Pieniazek D, Peralta JM, Ferreira JA, et al.
Identification of mixed HIV-1/HIV-2 infections in Brazil by polymerase chain reaction.
AIDS 1991;5:1293-9.
Neumann PW, O'Shaughnessy MV, Lepine D, D'Souza I, Major C, McLaughlin B.
Laboratory diagnosis of the first cases of HIV-2 infection in Canada.
Can Med Assoc J 1989;140:125-8.
Myers RA, Patel JD, Joseph JM.
Identifying HIV-2-seropositive individuals by reevaluating HIV-1 indeterminate sera.
J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 1992;5:417-23.
Onorato I, Schable C, Spruill C, et al.
Warning of the next epidemic: surveillance for HIV-2 infection in high-risk populations -- United States, 1988-90 (abstract M.C.3068).
VII International Conference on AIDS, Florence, June 15-21, 1991.
Surveillance for HIV-2 infection in blood donors -- United States, 1987-1989.
MMWR 1990;39:829-31.
Busch M, Petersen L, Schable C, Perkins H.
Monitoring blood donors for HIV-2 infection by testing anti-HIV-1 reactive sera.
Transfusion 1990;30:184-7.
Petrucci JM, Yankee RA.
HIV2 testing of Rhode Island blood donors (abstract S3).
Transfusion 1991;31(suppl):5S.
Popovsky MA, Lenes B, Buenano A, McDonald H.
HIV-2 seroprevalence in targeted blood donors: 1990-1991 (abstract S178).
Transfusion 1991; 31(suppl):49S.
Ha B, Miller H, Hyslop A, et al.
Detection of HIV-2 antibody in HIV-1 reactive donor samples (abstract S179).
Transfusion 1991;31(suppl): 49S.
Pau C-P, Granade TC, Parekh B, et al.
Misidentification of HIV-2 proteins by Western blots.
Lancet 1991 ;337:616-7.
George JR, Holloman D, Fridlund C, et al.
Improved Western blot for typing HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections (abstract W.C.3194).
VII International Conference on AIDS, Florence, June 16-21, 1991.
Parekh BS, Pau C-P, Granade TC, et al.
Oligomeric nature of transmembrane glycoproteins of HIV-2: procedures for their efficient dissociation and preparation of Western blots for diagnosis.
AIDS 1991;5:1009-13.
Kvinesdal BB, Nielsen CM, Poulsen AG, Hjlyng N.
Immunofluorescence assay for detection of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 2.
J Clin Microbiol 1989;27(11):2502-4.
Gnann JW Jr, McCormick JB, Mitchell S, Nelson JA, Oldstone MBA.
Synthetic peptide immunoassay distinguishes HIV type 1 and HIV type 2 infections.
Science 1987;237:1346-9.
Simon F, Cot M-C, Lesager C, et al.
AIDS 1989;3:401-2.
Jackson JB, Balfour HH Jr.
Practical diagnostic testing for human immunodeficiency virus.
Clin Microbiol Rev 1988;1:124-38.
Surgeon General's Report on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
JAMA 1986;256:2783-9.
Clavel F, Mansinho K, Chamaret S, et al.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 2 infection associated with AIDS in West Africa.
N Engl J Med 1987;316:1180-5.
Brun-Vezinet F, Rey MA, Katlama C, et al.
Lymphadenopathy-associated virus type 2 in AIDS and AIDS-related complex.
Lancet 1987;1:128-2.
Marlink R, Thior I, Dia MC, et al.
Prospective study of the natural history of HIV-2 (abstract Tu.C.104).
Presented at the VII International Conference on AIDS, Florence, June 18, 1991.
Pepin J, Morgan G, Dunn D, et al.
HIV-2-induced immunosuppression among asymptomatic West African prostitutes: evidence that HIV-2 is pathogenic, but less so than HIV-1.
AIDS 1991;5:1166-72.
Interpretation and use of the Western blot assay for serodiagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infections.
MMWR 1989;38(No.S-7).
Table_1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
African countries with a high prevalence of HIV-2 infection (11, 12) ============================================================================= West African nations Mauritania * Benin Niger Burkina Faso Nigeria * Cape Verde * Sao Tome Cote d'Ivoire * Senegal Gambia * Sierra Leone * Ghana Togo Guinea Guinea-Bissau * Other African nations Liberia Angola * Mali * Mozambique * ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Prevalence of HIV-2 reported to exceed 1% in the general population.
Return to top.
Figure_1 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Training Development EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Quality Training Standards Resources VIEW ALL View All Quality Training Standards FEB.
24, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW CDC has set standard benchmarks for determining high-quality trainings.
These Quality Training Standards provide guidance for creating high-quality trainings.
A training must meet all eight standards to be considered a CDC Quality Training.
Overview These eight training development standards serve as a quality benchmark for trainings developed or funded by CDC.
The standards provide guidance for developing quality training that results in learning.
To learn more, see the CDC Quality Standards Introduction video.
Low Resolution Video Your training must meet all eight standards to be considered a Quality Training.
Examples See examples of trainings that meet the standards using the CDC Quality Training Standards search filter in CDC TRAIN, CDC's online learning management system.
Quality Training Standards 1.
Training NEEDS ASSESSMENT informs training development Ensure that training is needed to address the gap, training is not always the solution.
Conduct a needs assessment that validates the need for training.
Consider a simple or complex approach.
Complex approaches might include collecting new data through surveys and interviews.
Simple approaches might include looking at existing data or literature or talking to a few key informants.
Conduct a training needs analysis if training is needed.
This is a part of the needs assessment and focuses on gathering information that helps with training approach.
Identify and confirm the training goal with key partners.
Identify and describe learners (and community if appropriate).
Identify barriers and facilitators for training delivery (e.g., language, technology, or location).
Select a delivery method(s), strategy(ies), or trainers appropriate for content and learners.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Identify appropriate competencies (e.g., Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals), if relevant.
Establish and confer with a planning committee that includes representatives of the learner audience.
Training includes LEARNING OBJECTIVES Develop SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-bound) learning objectives (e.g., writing effective learning objectives ).
Match learning objectives with goals.
Select educational methods that support learning objectives.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Match learning objectives with competencies (e.g., Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals), if competencies exist.
Describe prerequisite knowledge and skills and how they can be obtained.
Training content is ACCURATE AND RELEVANT Develop content that meets the needs of the learners and program based on the needs assessment.
Consider your learners and make sure your content (including examples and visuals) is appropriate and relevant.
Include real-world examples that support the content.
Ensure content aligns with learning objectives to avoid unnecessary material.
Conduct a subject matter expert (SME) review.
The SME(s) should ensure that content is accurate based on best-available evidence and up-to-date.
The SME(s) should review for bias and ensure possible biases (including commercial bias) are minimized and mitigated (e.g., content changed and conflicts of interest disclosed).
Create an expiration date for the training to review and update or retire, as needed.
Review may include evidence-based practice, peer review journals, best practices, or SMEs' input.
Update or remove content in a timely manner.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Align content with at least one professional competency (e.g., Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals), if competencies exist.
Ensure content offered in another language is linguistically appropriate and accurate .
If it was translated and not created directly in the target language, verify that it was done using standard industry translation processes and is reviewed by a bilingual SME(s).
Training includes opportunities for LEARNER ENGAGEMENT Design training that is interactive or engaging (e.g., knowledge checks, case studies, question and answer sessions, or exercises), as appropriate for learners' needs and training goals.
Provide opportunity for learners to receive feedback.
Facilitate engagement activities to include all learners.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Use adult learning principles for adult learners.
Include experiential or practice-based learning (e.g., internship with a mentor for on-the-job learning).
Provide opportunity for learners to share experiences and learn from others' experiences.
These may include peer learning and interdisciplinary opportunities for practice.
Training is designed for USABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY Use conversational style that is appropriate for learners (i.e., active voice, present tense, and second person).
Use language and tone that is familiar and clear for learners.
Select media, interface, and educational methods that can be used by your audience and facilitates learning (e.g., some learners may not have reliable internet access).
Design for user experience.
Develop easy and user-friendly navigation or materials.
Ensure that navigation or materials allow learners flexibility to access content that that they need.
Organize concepts in logical sections.
Make content accessible to learners (e.g., section 508 compliant and accommodations as needed).
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Use high quality (e.g., clear, clean, and crisp) audio and visual aids to clarify concepts when appropriate.
Use technology that is current and easy to access.
Ensure that links are functional.
Provide technical support.
Training EVALUATION informs improvement Develop and implement a training evaluation plan that includes the evaluation purpose, questions, and data collection methods.
Recruit evaluation participants who reflect your learner audience.
Conduct a formative evaluation as part of development.
This may include peer review, quality checklist assessment (e.g., using this checklist), pilot testing, or usability testing .
Conduct outcome evaluation that includes training effectiveness and learner assessment (Standard 7).
Include opportunity for learners to provide feedback on training.
Include open-ended feedback, if possible.
Review and analyze evaluation data for training improvement.
Plan to use process evaluation data and learner feedback for ongoing quality improvement.
Make recommendations for training content, delivery methods, and learning activities that fill gaps with focus on areas with greatest need.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Conduct a delayed or follow-up evaluation after learners have had time to apply what they learned.
Training includes opportunity for LEARNER ASSESSMENT Construct learner assessments (e.g., posttest, knowledge check, exercise, observed practice, question and answer session, or problem solving) that relate directly to learning objectives to reinforce learning.
Use different question formats, such as multiple choice, matching, listing, reordering, and sorting.
Use socially and contextually relevant assessments for learners to apply what they have learned (e.g., case scenarios are realistic and relevant to learners).
Provide learners with feedback on their responses or skill demonstration to support learning.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Recognize learner completion through a certificate or other notification.
Training includes FOLLOW-UP SUPPORT for the learner Provide opportunities to learners for continued learning after the training that reinforces retention and application of content delivered during training.
Use a simple or complex approach that includes at least one resource for post training support.
Simple approaches include providing contact information for help, tip sheets and other resources for more information, and access to other learners for peer support.
Complex approaches include conference calls, webcasts, coaching, homework assignments, accountability partners, communities of practice, and reminders such as emails and quizzes provided some time after the training.
Choose an approach that is socially and contextually relevant to learners (i.e., reflective of the learners' experiences and environment).
For example, consider learners' availability and access to technology.
Some trainings may require additional attributes.
Consider if the following apply to your training: Provide resources to management or partner organizations for follow-up support.
Resources CDC Quality Training Standards CDC Quality Training Developer Checklist Training Effectiveness Predictors Resource Guide: Training with Intention ON THIS PAGE Overview Quality Training Standards Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Training Development Learn how to design and develop quality training to improve public health.
Recommendations and Reports December 5, 2008 / 57(RR10);10-11 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Appendix B Comparison of the Revised World Health Organization and CDC Surveillance Case Definitions and Staging Systems for HIV Infection In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) revised the standard human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) clinical staging system and the clinical and surveillance case definitions (1).
The definitions were revised to 1) provide standardized HIV infection and AIDS surveillance case definitions, 2) simplify clinical staging, 3) coordinate the WHO 2002 three-stage pediatric staging system with the WHO 1990 four-stage adult system, 4) include immunologic criteria and clinical staging in case definitions, and 5) coordinate the clinical staging and surveillance case definitions.
This appendix summarizes the revised criteria for WHO case surveillance and compares the 2007 revised WHO definitions with the 2008 revised CDC definitions.
Despite differences in WHO and CDC disease classification and staging and because CDC recommends reporting all CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts for persons, the revised WHO case definition still allows comparison of CDC surveillance data from the United States with WHO data from other countries.
Revised WHO Definitions Surveillance Case Definitions WHO recommends reporting cases of HIV infection as HIV infection or advanced HIV disease (AHD), including AIDS.
All cases of HIV infection, AHD, and AIDS require a confirmed diagnosis of HIV infection based on laboratory testing, using the appropriate national testing algorithm (1).
The revised WHO surveillance case definitions include the following: HIV infection (stages 1 and 2), AHD (stage 3), and AIDS (stage 4) (1).
Clinical Staging and Immunologic Criteria Four clinical stages have been established for persons with confirmed HIV infection.
These stages include the full spectrum of HIV infection and coincide with WHO clinical treatment recommendations: 1) no symptoms, 2) mild symptoms, 3) advanced symptoms, and 4) severe symptoms (1).
The revised staging systems include presumptive clinical diagnoses that can be made in the absence of laboratory tests and definitive clinical criteria that require confirmatory laboratory tests.
The clinical stage provides useful information when HIV infection is first diagnosed, when a person begins receiving care for HIV infection, for tracking patients in treatment programs, and to guide decisions on when to initiate cotrimoxazole prophylaxis and antiretroviral therapy (ART).
Age-specific immunologic criteria for the disease classification are presented.
Immunologic and clinical criteria should be documented (when available) to describe a case of HIV infection.
Comparison of the WHO and CDC Definitions Both the WHO and CDC surveillance case definitions for HIV infection now require laboratory confirmation of HIV infection.
Differences between the WHO and CDC definitions and staging systems include the following (Table): WHO recommends reporting cases of HIV infection as HIV infection or AHD (including AIDS), whereas CDC recommends reporting cases of HIV infection by stage (i.e., stage 1, stage 2, stage 3, or stage unknown).
WHO presents four clinical stages for disease classification to reflect the WHO ART treatment guidelines, whereas CDC presents three, combining WHO stages 2 and 3 into CDC stage 2.
Because of increased, although not universal, availability of CD4+ T-lymphocyte testing, WHO recommends using clinical and immunologic criteria for clinical staging.
Despite these differences in disease classification and clinical staging and because CDC recommends reporting all CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts, CDC and WHO stages can still be compared.
Reference World Health Organization (WHO).
WHO case definitions of HIV for surveillance and revised clinical staging and immunological classification of HIV-related disease in adults and children.
Geneva, Switzerland: WHO Press; 2007.
Available at 
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports December 5, 2008 / 57(RR10);9 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
1994 Revised classification system for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children less than 13 years of age.
1993 Revised classification system for HIV infection and expanded surveillance case definition for AIDS among adolescents and adults.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Learning Connection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health About CDC Learning Connection Identify Quality Training Partner Training Resources VIEW ALL View All Public Health MARCH 22, 2024 Partner Training Resources AT A GLANCE If CDC does not offer the training you need, explore learning opportunities developed by CDC partners.
Partner Websites AIDS Education and Training Center from the National Coordinating Research Center – Training Materials Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology (APIC)- Education & Certification Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL) – Laboratory Training Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) – CSTE Learn Medscape – CME and Education National Association of County & City Health Officials (NACCHO) – Events & Training National Coalition for Sexual Health – For Providers National Coordinating Center for Public Health Training (NCCPHT) National Environmental Health Association (NEHA) – Education National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers Public Health Foundation (PHF) – Resources and Tools Public Health Informatics Institute (PHII) – Course Catalog Public Health Learning Navigator Public Health Training Center Network RELATED PAGES About CDC Learning Connection Identify Quality Training VIEW ALL Learning Connection About CDC Learning Connection SOURCES PRINT SHARE Learning Connection We help public health and healthcare professionals stay informed about quality trainings from CDC, other federal agencies, and federally funded partners.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Training Development EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Quality Training Standards Resources VIEW ALL View All Public Health OCTOBER 28, 2024 Evaluate Training: Measuring Effectiveness WHAT TO KNOW Effective trainings help learners gain knowledge and skills they can apply to their workplace.
Determine the effectiveness of your training by understanding what to evaluate, when to evaluate, and what questions to ask learners.
Overview The goal of training is to help a learner improve their competence, capacity, and performance.
Training helps learners gain new knowledge and skill.
The most effective training also helps learners apply this information to their workplace, a process known as transfer of learning or simply learning transfer.
Training effectiveness refers to how well your training supports learning and learning transfer.
There are many ways to evaluate training effectiveness.
What to evaluate You should assess both learning and learning transfer, whenever possible.
Evaluate learning Design your evaluation to assess how successfully the learner met the training's learning objectives.
Look at the combined results for all learners to help you understand their learning and identify data trends that indicate challenging topics for your learners—which might show a need to improve course content or instruction.
Evaluate learning transfer Design your evaluation to assess how successfully the learner can apply what they learned when they return to the workplace.
Look at the combined results for all learners to help you understand if learning transfer is occurring and which topics are challenging for learners to apply—which might show a need for follow-up support for the learners.
When to evaluate training effectiveness Your data collection methods and timing will depend on your evaluation questions.
Determine what information you need while considering what is feasible.
Your time, resources, and training scope should drive your evaluation approach.
Learn more‎ To learn more about training evaluation methods and questions see Evaluate Training: Building an Evaluation Plan.
Before and after training The best way to evaluate any change in learning is through assessment before and after the training.
Conduct a pretest before and a posttest after your training and then compare the results.
Considerations: The test can include a demonstration to assess skill in addition to knowledge, if needed.
Using only a posttest, without a pretest, can provide an assessment of skill or knowledge proficiency.
This allows you to know if learners achieved a certain level of knowledge or skill by the end of the training, but you will not know if there was a change in learning.
Learners might have already had the knowledge or skill at the start of the training.
Retrospective pre/post assessment If you are unable to assess learning through a pretest and posttest, consider using a retrospective pre/post assessment that asks learners to self-assess their knowledge before and after the course as part of a postcourse evaluation.
Examples‎ 1.
Rate your knowledge of the course topic before the course.
Rate your knowledge of (or skill in) the course topic now after the course.
During training Build knowledge or skill assessment into the training, like knowledge checks, quizzes or observations.
This can provide evaluation data and reinforce learning at the same time.
Considerations: In an e-learning, you might have knowledge checks throughout the course to help reinforce learning.
Those same knowledge checks give you data on how learners progress during the course.
For an in-person training, you might ask your learners questions to assess their comprehension or use an activity to gauge how they apply what they are learning.
This provides real-time information for the instructor to reinforce content or adapt as needed.
Immediately after training In many situations, you might only be able to gather information from your learners immediately after the training ends.
You can design your postcourse evaluation to assess learning and predict learning transfer immediately after the course ends, while learners are available to respond.
Considerations: Postcourse evaluations traditionally focus on learner satisfaction, but the research shows learner satisfaction does not determine a training's effectiveness.
Postcourse evaluations cannot objectively assess learning or learning transfer, but focusing on the areas with the strongest, most consistent relationships with learning and learning transfer can provide you with meaningful data about training effectiveness.
Based on factors that predict learning transfer, Section 3 of the Recommended Training Effectiveness Questions for Postcourse Evaluations User Guide can help you determine your training's effectiveness.
Delayed evaluation or follow-up Delayed evaluation, also called follow-up evaluation, is the best way to assess learning transfer.
This helps training developers understand how much information learners retained, and if they have applied what they learned on the job.
You can follow-up with learners to assess learning transfer after they have had time to go back to their workplace and apply what they have learned.
Considerations: For some trainings, it might also be appropriate to follow-up with learners' supervisors.
The timing of your delayed evaluation should be based on your program resources, the specific topic of the training, and learners' capacity to apply what they learned in the workplace.
Recommended training effectiveness questions These questions focus on themes strongly associated with learning and learning transfer that can be measured in-person or online with adult learners.
For more information, visit the Recommended Training Effectiveness Questions for Postcourse Evaluations User Guide.
The user guide includes the recommended questions, rationale for each question, additional context or caveats that you should consider when using the questions, and references to the research that supports the questions.
You can adapt the questions to fit your training evaluation plan and data collection tools.
The Example Postcourse and Follow-Up Evaluations use the Training Effectiveness questions along with additional questions that inform quality improvement and decision making.
For postcourse evaluations 1.
Rate your knowledge of the course topic before the course.
Not at all knowledgeable Slightly knowledgeable Moderately knowledgeable Very knowledgeable Extremely knowledgeable 2.
Rate your knowledge of (or skill in) the course topic now after the course.
Not at all knowledgeable Slightly knowledgeable Moderately knowledgeable Very knowledgeable Extremely knowledgeable 3.
How relevant is this course to your current work?
Not at all relevant Slightly relevant Moderately relevant Very relevant Extremely relevant 4.
What is your opinion of the balance of lecture and interactivity in this course?
Too much lecture and not enough interactive learning Right amount of both lecture and interactive learning Too much interactive learning and not enough lecture 5.
Will you use what you learned in this course in your work?
Definitely not Probably not Possibly Probably yes Definitely yes Not applicable — I did not learn anything new from this course 6.
What factors will keep you from using the content of this course in your work?
(Select all that apply) I need additional training in the subject matter I will not have the resources I need I will not be provided opportunities to use what I learned I will not have the time to use what I learned My supervisor will not support me in using what I learned My colleagues will not support me in using what I learned The course content is not relevant to my current work Other (please specify): 7.
What, if anything, do you plan to use from this course?
(open-ended) 8.
How could this course be improved to make it a more effective learning experience?
(open-ended) 9.
What part of this course was most helpful to your learning?
(open-ended) For delayed evaluation 1.
To what extent have you used what you learned in this course in your work?
What did you use from this course?
(open-ended) 3.
What factors helped you use the content of this course in your work?
(Select all that apply) I had reminders of key learning concepts or skills I had the resources I needed I had opportunities to use what I learned I had time to apply what I learned My supervisor supported me in using what I learned My colleagues supported me in using what I learned Other (please specify): 4.
What factors kept you from using the content of this course in your work?
(Select all that apply) I need additional training in the subject matter I did not remember the course content well enough to use it I did not have the resources I needed I did not have opportunities to use what I learned I did not have the time to use what I learned My supervisor did not support me in using what I learned My colleagues did not support me in using what I learned The course content was not relevant to my work Other (please specify): Resources Recommended Training Effectiveness Questions for Postcourse Evaluations User Guide Training Effectiveness Predictors Learning-Transfer Evaluation Model ON THIS PAGE Overview What to evaluate When to evaluate training effectiveness Recommended training effectiveness questions Resources RELATED PAGES About Develop: Engaging Webinars Develop: Quality E-Learning Develop: Adult Learning Develop: Accredited Training Evaluate: Evaluation Plan VIEW ALL Training Development Quality Training Standards SOURCES PRINT SHARE Training Development Learn how to design and develop quality training to improve public health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Training Development EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Quality Training Standards Resources VIEW ALL View All Public Health OCTOBER 28, 2024 Evaluate Training: Building an Evaluation Plan WHAT TO KNOW Evaluating your training can help you improve your current and future trainings.
You should make your evaluation plan early in the training development process.
Making an evaluation plan includes determining the evaluation’s purpose, developing questions, and choosing data evaluation methods.
Overview Training evaluation is the systematic process of collecting information and using that information to improve your training.
Evaluation provides feedback to help you identify if your training achieved your intended outcomes, and helps you make decisions about future trainings.
How to make an evaluation plan You should think about your evaluation plan early in the training design process.
Work with training developers and other stakeholders to identify the: Evaluation purpose Evaluation questions Data collection methods Your training stakeholders might include the intended audience, organizational leaders, or others with an interest in the training.
Determine the evaluation purpose An evaluation purpose explains why you are conducting an evaluation.
To help shape your evaluation purpose, consider who will use the findings, how they will use them, and what they need to know.
You might use training evaluation findings to: Develop a new training Improve an existing training Provide instructor feedback Determine if your training met the desired outcomes Make decisions about resource allocation Evaluation purpose examples 1.
You have an online training and find that many learners start but do not complete the training.
You want to do an evaluation to determine how to improve completion rates.
Your program invests heavily in classroom training.
You need to know if the trainings are effective to justify the resources your program is using.
Develop the evaluation questions Create evaluation questions that match your purpose.
Evaluation questions are broad, overarching questions that support your evaluation purpose—they are not specific test or survey questions for learners to answer.
Evaluation questions are often focused on one of two categories: process or outcome.
Process evaluation Process evaluation questions focus on the training itself—things like the content, format, and delivery of the training.
Process evaluation question examples 1.
To what extent does the training meet CDC's Quality Training Standards?
To what extent did the training reach the intended audience?
How can we make the training more engaging?
Outcome evaluation Outcome evaluation questions focus on changes in the training participants – things like learning and the transfer of learning.
For more information see Evaluate Training: Measuring Effectiveness.
Outcome evaluation question examples 1.
How much did learners' knowledge increase?
To what extent were learning objectives met?
To what extent did learners apply what they learned when they returned to work after the training?
Choose the data collection methods Choose data collection methods that will help you answer your evaluation questions.
Commonly used data collection methods include: observation tests and quizzes surveys or questionnaires expert or peer review interviews or focus groups Identify how long it will take to access this data and how often you will collect it.
Develop a timeline for when to collect, analyze, and interpret data so that you will have the information ready when you need it.
Keep feasibility in mind when you select data collection methods.
The resources, time, and effort required should match the scope of the training and should fit within your available resources and timeline.
Resources Example Postcourse and Follow-Up Training Evaluations Five Levels of Professional Development Evaluation Evaluation Questions Checklist for Program Evaluation CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention Program Evaluation Tip Sheet: Evaluating Training Events Training Evaluation Framework and Tools ON THIS PAGE Overview How to make an evaluation plan Resources RELATED PAGES About Develop: Engaging Webinars Develop: Quality E-Learning Develop: Adult Learning Develop: Accredited Training Evaluate: Training Effectiveness VIEW ALL Training Development Evaluate: Training Effectiveness SOURCES PRINT SHARE Training Development Learn how to design and develop quality training to improve public health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Health Literacy EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Find Training Developing a Plan in Your Organization Develop & Test Materials Federally Funded Research Research Summaries Evaluating Your Programs Getting Started Public Health Professionals Resources Course Glossary Health Literacy Activities by State VIEW ALL Related Topics: Gateway to Health Communication | Clear Communication Index View All OCTOBER 16, 2024 Guidance & Tools AT A GLANCE Health professionals have a responsibility to make sure health information is usable and understandable by audiences.
The guidance and tools on this page can help make your health information accurate, accessible, and actionable.
Communication guidance Accessible Digital Content: Tips and Tricks (U.S.
General Services Administration, Technology Transformation Services) In this 2021 webinar recording, the presenters bring attention to some of the common accessibility mistakes that people make when developing digital content, show attendees how to fix them, and demonstrate how to create a product that's accessible from the start.
Clear Communication: An NIH Health Literacy Initiative (National Institutes of Health): NIH has established the Clear Communication initiative that focuses on achieving two key objectives of health literacy: Providing information in the form and with the content that is accessible to specific audiences based on cultural competence and incorporating plain language approaches and new technologies.
NIH National Cancer Institute "Pink Book" – Making Health Communication Programs Work (National Cancer Institute): This book describes a practical approach for planning and implementing health communication efforts.
It covers a range of topics, from planning and strategy development, to pretesting materials, to implementing the campaign, to evaluation.
Material assessment tools Clear Communication Index (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention): The CDC Clear Communication Index (Index) is a research-based tool to plan and assess public communication materials.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) developed the Index to identify the most important factors that increase clarity and aid understanding of public messages and materials.
Clear Writing Assessment (National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry): The Clear Writing Assessment focuses primarily on grammar and mechanics to help you write clearly.
Answer 16 questions about your material and use the score to determine if your document needs further revisions.
A user guide helps explain the importance of all 16 items in the assessment tool.
CDC developed the Clear Communication Index to identify the most important factors that increase clarity and aid understanding of public messages and materials.
Plain language materials and resources Plain language makes it easier for everyone to understand and use health information.
Although plain language is a familiar idea, many organizations don't use it as often as they should.
The Plain Writing Act of 2010 requires federal agencies to train staff and use plain language when they communicate with the public.
Web communication guidance Health Literacy Online Guide (Department of Health and Human Services): This guide is written for web designers, content specialists, and other public health communication professionals.
The guide offers an overview of how to deliver online health information that is actionable and engaging, create a health web site that's easy to use, particularly for people with limited literacy skills and limited experience using the web, and evaluate and improve your health Web site with user-centered design.
Usability.gov (Department of Health and Human Services): Usability.gov is a one-stop source for government web designers to learn how to make websites more usable, useful, and accessible.
The site addresses a broad range of factors that go into web design and development.
The site will help you to: Plan and design usable sites by collecting data on what users need, develop prototypes, conduct usability tests and write up results, and measure trends and demographics.
Tips to improve your materials Expand All Use pictures to improve health communication Make orally delivered health information accessible and actionable Use headings and chunking to help readers scan, find, recall, and understand information Use narrative communication Explain risk and numbers Use participatory design ON THIS PAGE Communication guidance Material assessment tools Plain language materials and resources Web communication guidance Tips to improve your materials SOURCES PRINT SHARE Health Literacy Information, tools, and links on health literacy research, practice, and evaluation for public health topics and situations.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Professionals Gateway EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health 10 Essential Public Health Services Cooperative Agreements, Grants & Partnerships Public Health Professional: Programs Health Assessment: Index Research Summary Communication Resources VIEW ALL View All MAY 16, 2024 Competencies for Public Health Professionals KEY POINTS The knowledge, skills, abilities, and behaviors required for public health professionals to succeed in their roles are known as competencies.
Learn about Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals and other discipline-specific competency frameworks used by public health organizations.
Background In public health, successful mastery of competencies is vital to developing a strong workforce that supports organizational and community needs.
Public health agencies and organizations can use competencies to: Create job descriptions, career paths, and quality trainings.
Assess workforce development needs.
Inform workforce development plans.
Identify specific training, coaching, and mentoring opportunities or gaps.
Determine strengths and weaknesses in organizational and individual performance evaluations.
Support efforts to meet national accreditation standards.
See Domain 8 of Public Health Accreditation Board Standards & Measures .
State, local, territorial, and tribal use of competencies‎ The Healthy People 2030 Public Health Infrastructure Topic Area includes objectives on the use of the Core Competencies by state, local, territorial, and tribal health departments.
CDC's National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce (Public Health Infrastructure Center) and the Health Resources and Services Administration coordinate this topic area.
Core competencies The Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals (Core Competencies) are a framework for workforce development planning and action.
They are "a consensus set of knowledge and skills for the broad practice of public health, defined by the 10 Essential Public Health Services." The Core Competencies have a long history in supporting workforce efforts in public health practice and academic settings.
They were initially developed in 1991 by the Council on Linkages Between Academia and Public Health Practice , a collaborative team of national public health practice-based and academic organizations .
The current version was adopted on October 21, 2021, following a year-long review and revision process.
Examples of how public health agencies and organizations use the Core Competencies can be found on the Public Health Foundation website along with tools that can be adapted for that purpose.
Competency-Based Trainings Competency sets are often used by training platforms to help users identify offerings that meet their needs.
TRAIN is a learning management platform supported by the Public Health Foundation and used by public health agencies and organizations.
CDC uses it via CDC TRAIN .
TRAIN users can use the "Competencies and Capabilities" feature to search for trainings.
Users can find trainings based on specific tiers or domains of the Core Competencies and other select competencies sets.
Select public health workforce competency frameworks Public health organizations use a variety of discipline-specific competency frameworks in addition to the Core Competencies.
The list below is not exhaustive but includes many competency models that support and advance public health workforce efforts.
Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals - Council on Linkages between Academia and Public Health Practice (Council on Linkages) (Latest edition: 2021) Competencies for Performance Improvement Professionals in Public Health (PI Competencies) - Council on Linkages (Latest edition: 2018) Public Health Law Competency Model: Version 1.0 - CDC's Public Health Law Program (Latest edition: 2016) Legal Epidemiology Competency Model Version 1.0 - CDC's Public Health Law Program (Latest edition: 2018) Public Health Emergency Law Competency Model Version 1.0 - CDC's Center for Preparedness and Response and CDC's Public Health Law Program (Latest edition: 2013) Applied Epidemiology Competencies - CDC and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (Latest edition: 2023) Community/Public Health Nursing Competencies - The Council of Public Health Nursing Organizations (Latest edition: 2018) Competencies for Population Health Professionals - Association for Community Health Improvement, Catholic Health Association, Council on Linkages, Association of American Medical Colleges, and Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (Latest edition: 2019) Environmental Health Competencies - The American Public Health Association with support from CDC's National Center for Environmental Health (Latest edition: 2020) Applied Public Health Informatics Competency Model - The Informatics Academy at the Public Health Informatics Institute (Latest edition: 2016) Immunization Information System (IIS) Core Competency Model - Public Health Informatics Institute with support from CDC (Latest edition: 2021) Including People with Disabilities: Public Health Workforce Competencies - A national committee comprised of disability and public health experts with support from CDC (Latest edition: 2016) Responsibilities and Competencies for Health Education Specialists - The National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc.
(Latest edition: 2020) Competency Guidelines for Public Health Laboratory Professionals - CDC and the Association of Public Health Laboratories (Latest edition: 2015) Public Health Associate Program (PHAP) Cohort Competencies - CDC's Public Health Infrastructure Center (Latest edition: 2022) Accreditation Criteria: Schools of Public Health & Public Health Programs – includes MPH and DrPH foundational competencies - The Council on Education for Public Health (Latest edition: 2024) Racial Justice Competencies for Public Health Professionals - The Public Health Training Center Network in partnership with the National Network of Public Health Institutes (Latest edition: 2022) ON THIS PAGE Background Core competencies Competency-Based Trainings Select public health workforce competency frameworks SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Gateway CDC's National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce helps drive public health forward and helps HDs deliver services to communities.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Training Development EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Quality Training Standards Resources VIEW ALL View All Public Health OCTOBER 28, 2024 Develop Training: Offering Continuing Education Accreditation WHAT TO KNOW Accreditation is an indicator of quality programming.
Accredited programs help the public health workforce maintain their licensure and certification requirements.
CDC-funded trainings can get CDC’s help with accreditation.
Non CDC-funded trainings have other options for accreditation.
Overview Accreditation is a review process conducted by designated providers of continuing education (CE) to determine whether an educational activity meets the educational design standards of the accrediting body.
Accreditation is a marker of quality programming and gives educational activities that offer CE a competitive edge.
Value of accreditation During the accreditation process you will get helpful feedback that will improve the quality of your educational program.
Accreditation lets learners know that you have met certain standards of quality required to receive accreditation.
Offering CE can help your trainings stand out to learners and serves as an incentive for your audience to participate in your activities.
By offering CE, you can also help the public health and healthcare workforce maintain the licenses and certification they need to remain qualified health professionals.
When to start Begin the accreditation process when you start to develop your training.
You may need additional time to find a designated CE provider and complete the review process.
These accreditation requirements will influence your overall training development process and timeline.
CDC-funded trainings CDC is a designated provider of CE.
If the training you are developing is funded by CDC in part or in full, please connect with us for more information and assistance.
Visit CDC's Continuing Education page to learn how to get CE accreditation.
Non CDC-funded trainings If you are developing a training that is not funded by CDC, you have several options for accreditation by connecting with other designated providers of CE.
Consider reaching out to the following sources.
This is not an exhaustive list of options for CE, but it can give you a place to start as you explore options.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) The FDA Consultation and Accreditation Team is a jointly accredited provider of CE educational and training activities for public health and healthcare professionals.
Indian Health Service (IHS) provides educational services to healthcare providers nationwide through their Clinical Support Center (CSC).
As a jointly accredited provider, CSC offers CE credit to an interprofessional audience of learners though a single, unified application process and set of accreditation standards.
American Public Health Association (APHA) is accredited to provide CE for health educators and physicians and for those certified in public health.
Additionally, APHA and its Public Health Nursing Section accredit activities for nursing.
Area Health Education Centers (AHECs) train students and healthcare professionals in rural and underserved communities.
AHEC supports the National Training Center (NTC), which facilitates national CE projects from the AHEC network.
Find your local AHEC and connect with them for information about getting CE for your trainings.
Universities with medical schools, nursing schools, or that are connected to a health system may offer CE to ensure that their staff are able to maintain their certifications.
Reach out to your local university to find out if they are an accredited provider of CE and interested in working together.
Example ‎ The Region V Public Health Training Center at the University of Michigan School of Public Health is accredited as a provider of nursing continuing professional development by the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Commission on Accreditation and is also a Certified in Public Health (CPH) CE partner.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Value of accreditation When to start CDC-funded trainings Non CDC-funded trainings RELATED PAGES About Develop: Engaging Webinars Develop: Quality E-Learning Develop: Adult Learning Evaluate: Evaluation Plan Evaluate: Training Effectiveness VIEW ALL Training Development Evaluate: Evaluation Plan SOURCES PRINT SHARE Training Development Learn how to design and develop quality training to improve public health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHAP Apply What Associates Do Associates' Stories Promotion & Recruitment Tools Applying to Host an Associate VIEW ALL View All FEBRUARY 6, 2025 About The Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates KEY POINTS The Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) is a two-year, paid training program that prepares recent graduates to enter the public health workforce through field experience and structured learning.
PHAP has over 100 associates fulfilling hands-on public health workforce needs at any given time in nearly all 50 states, U.S.
territories, and the District of Columbia.
Overview PHAP trains associates to work in a variety of public health settings.
PHAP is a competitive, two-year, paid training program with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Associates are assigned to state, tribal, local, and territorial public health agencies and nongovernmental organizations.
They work alongside other professionals across a variety of public health settings.
Associates gain hands-on experience that serves as a foundation for their public health careers.
After graduating from PHAP, associates are qualified to convert non-competitively to full-time positions at CDC and the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Graduates also qualify to apply for positions with public health agencies and non-governmental organizations.
PHAP was established in 2007 to support CDC at the forefront of public health and train field-tested, experienced, and dedicated public health advisors.
Since its inception, over 1,800 associates have participated in the program.
PHAP: Supports associates' attainment of required performance standards while on the job.
Increases host site capacity.
Provides associates with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to fulfill program competencies.
Host sites orient associates to their respective agencies/organizations and train them in a wide range of public health competencies.
This training fulfills standard program requirements while enhancing the associates' work performance.
PHAP offers a variety of work assignments to give associates experience to develop as public health professionals.
Associates are assigned to one subject area that is selected by their host sites.
These subject areas focus on the nation's most pressing public health priorities.
Associates' work assignments provide skill-building activities in: Analytics and Assessment Public Health Science Policy and Law Funding and Budgeting Emergency Preparedness and Response Community Dimensions Program Planning, Management, and Improvement Professionalism Communication Health Equity Evaluation SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) The Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) is a competitive, two-year, paid training program with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Continuing Education (CE) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health CDC Continuing Education Accreditation Apply Types of CE for Health Professionals Roles & Responsibilities VIEW ALL View All SEPTEMBER 9, 2024 About CDC Continuing Education Accreditation KEY POINTS CDC assists program staff and funded partners who want to offer continuing education (CE) for the educational activities they develop.
CDC works with education developers to ensure their activities meet educational accreditation standards.
Accreditation helps to connect the public health workforce with quality training to maintain their licenses and certificates.
Overview CDC provides accreditation services for CDC funded activities and materials.
This includes coaching and technical assistance.
CDC works with education developers -- referred to as CE developers -- to ensure their educational activities meet rigorous accreditation standards.
CDC is accredited by five organizations to provide 10 types of CE.
Accreditation services are available to CDC programs and funded partners at no cost.
Mission‎ To oversee the development of CDC's continuing education activities to increase knowledge and skills, maintain licensures and certifications, and ultimately enhance the competency of the public health workforce's interprofessional teams.
Goals To provide quality education that improves workforce knowledge, skills, and competence to strengthen public health practice.
To promote career development through life-long learning.
Why it matters Accreditation is a marker of quality programming and gives CE activities a competitive edge.
Offering CE can help your trainings stand out to learners and serves as an incentive for your audience to participate.
CE activities are designed to increase health professionals' knowledge and competence.
Ultimately, a more knowledgeable workforce can better protect the public's health.
Accredited CE is supported by evidence-based research to address gaps in learner knowledge, competence, and performance.
Education developers will: get helpful feedback throughout the accreditation process that will improve the quality of the program.
Public health professionals can: identify programs that meet their profession's standards for quality education.
maintain licensure, certification, credentialing, and membership in professional societies.
learn about developments in their field without commercial influence.
The public will: know that health professionals are staying up to date on developments and best practices in their field.
know that public health professionals are gaining the knowledge and skills needed to improve health outcomes.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Continuing Education (CE) Learn how CDC accredits educational activities to support the agency's role of developing leaders and training the health workforce.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All MAY 16, 2024 The Public Health Emergency Law Competency Model Version 1.0 WHAT TO KNOW "Competency" in public law is the level at which public health practitioners can access and understand the laws that apply to given health issues.
This page offers guidance on competency in public health emergency law and defines it in law.
Background "Competency" in public health law is defined as the level at which public health practitioners have the skills "to access and understand the relevant laws and to actually apply them to given health issues ." Achieving such competency in public health emergency law is critical to a public health practitioner's ability to prepare for and respond to all-hazards public emergencies effectively.
Given the importance of public health law to effective public health emergency preparedness, and recognizing this critical gap in existing emergency preparedness competencies, CDC's Center for Preparedness and Response asked CDC's Public Health Law Program (PHLP) to develop a set of competencies in public health emergency law for mid-tier public health professionals.
In response, PHLP staff attorneys developed the Public Health Emergency Law Competency Model Version 1.0 (PHEL Competencies).
To develop the PHEL Competencies, PHLP staff: Used a deliberative process that built on existing frameworks for competency-based public health emergency curricula Reviewed and analyzed existing statements of competencies, performance benchmarks, and other related standards for public health work force development in public health emergency preparedness and in general public health practice Communicated with public health practitioners, public health emergency professionals, academics, public health lawyers across state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions, and ASPH education specialists.
For more on the history and methodology used to develop the PHEL Competencies, see Legal Preparedness for Public Health Emergencies: A Model for Minimum Competencies for Mid-Tier Public Health Professionals.
Using the PHEL competencies Ideally, the PHEL Competencies will be used to advance the inclusion of law-based content in all public health emergency training, resources, and tools.
This would ensure that more state and local mid-tier public health professionals could improve competency in this critical area.
For example: STLT preparedness coordinators and other public health professionals can use these competencies when they update or revise related job descriptions Mid-tier public health professionals can use this model as a self-assessment tool Preparedness coordinators can bring the competencies to their department's legal advisors' attention to start discussions about which specific federal or STLT laws might be implicated by each competency, and to identify ways to ensure relevant professionals are provided opportunities to increase their knowledge, skills, and abilities in public health emergency law The public health emergency law competency model version 1.0 Domain 1: Systems Preparedness and Response "Systems preparedness and response" refers to how the state, tribal, local, and territorial public health and safety agencies systematically engage in public health emergency preparedness and response efforts.
These efforts include drafting plans and agreements, coordinating with other agencies and jurisdictions, and interacting with stakeholders and the general public.
Act within the scope of federal, state, tribal, and local statutory and regulatory authority during emergencies and through state and/or federal declarations of emergency.
Communicate legal authority and procedures to emergency response partners, such as other public health agencies, health agencies, or government agencies during planning, drills, and actual emergencies.
Identify limits to legal knowledge, skill, and authority and identify key system resources, including legal advisors, for referring matters that exceed those limits.
Integrate legal information into the exercise of professional public health judgment within the larger public health response.
Domain 2: Management and Protection of Property and Supplies "Management and protection of property and supplies" refers to the steps public health emergency preparedness and response officials can take to manage supplies that may be used to mitigate the effects of a disaster.
Such management may include restricting the use of certain materials, preventing price gouging, or coordinating the distribution of needed supplies.
Implement the use of relevant legal information, tools, procedures, and remedies, including injunctions, closing orders, and abatement orders.
Identify how and under what circumstances legal searches, seizures, and destruction of property or material can take place for public health purposes.
Describe the legal authorities related to the distribution and dispensation of medical supplies and the effect of a state and/or federal emergency or public health declaration on those authorities.
Domain 3: Management and Protection of Persons "Management and protection of persons" refers to those public health emergency response activities that directly affect the rights of individuals.
In any situation where individual liberties may be affected, officials should pay special attention to the policies and procedures that have been established to ensure personal rights are restricted to the smallest extent possible when balanced against the need to protect the public.
Implement the use of relevant legal information, tools, procedures, and remedies related to social distancing, including evacuation, quarantine and isolation orders, closure of public places, and curfews.
Recognize the sources of potential civil and criminal liability of public health personnel and consider due process issues before taking legal action.
For more information about the PHEL Competencies project or PHLP's efforts in public health emergency law, please contact Gregory Sunshine, JD, Legal Analyst, at gsunshine@cdc.gov.
Key Definitions Competencies are observable and measurable knowledge, abilities, skills, and behaviors that must be applied to achieve results aligned with the goals of the organization.
Legal preparedness is an integral part of comprehensive preparedness for emerging public health threats and all-hazards emergencies.
It has been characterized as a subset of public health preparedness and is defined as the "attainment by a public health system .
of legal benchmarks essential to the preparedness of the public health system." The four core elements of public health legal preparedness are: Laws—legal authorities based in science and on contemporary principles of jurisprudence Competencies—professionals who know their operating legal framework and how to apply law to public health goals Coordination—to implement law-based actions across jurisdictions and sectors Information—on public health emergency law best practices and promising policies The PHEL Competency Model Version 1.0 focuses on the third element: competencies, and offers a set of core standards that aim to ensure that mid-tier public health professionals both understand the legal framework and can skillfully apply legal authorities to public health emergency preparedness and response activities.
A mid-tier public health professional is either a) an individual with five years of experience and an MPH equivalent or higher degree in public health or b) an individual who does not have an MPH or related degree, but has at least ten years of experience working in the public health field.
In general, aside from years of experience and education, these workers may be responsible for: Program support, coordination, development, implementation, management and/or evaluation, supervision Establishment and maintenance of community relations Argument prevention Policy issue recommendations.
As such, the broad capabilities presented herein generally apply to public health practitioners with program management and/or supervisory responsibilities.
ON THIS PAGE Background Using the PHEL competencies The public health emergency law competency model version 1.0 Key Definitions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Legal Epidemiology Competency Model Version 1.0 AT A GLANCE Competencies are the knowledge and skills that workers need to perform their work well.
The Legal Epidemiology Competency Model (LECM) offers guidelines for minimum competencies in legal epidemiology.
Learn more about this user-friendly model of specific skills and knowledge necessary to effectively develop, implement, or oversee legal epidemiology studies.
Legal Epidemiology Competency Model (LECM) Competencies are the knowledge and skills that workers need to perform their work well—a set of statements that workers and employers can use to define their accomplishments and work goals.A A competency model is a list of competencies, organized into groupings or domains, which describes the range of skills needed for satisfactory to exceptional employee performance.
Some governmental agencies refer to these as "core competencies." The goal of the Legal Epidemiology Competency Model (LECM), presented in Figure 1 (below), is to offer guidelines for minimum competencies in legal epidemiology,B including research and translation knowledge and skills required of public health practitioners, lawyers, and policy experts working in state, tribal, local, or territorial health departments.
Background and purpose The LECM is neither comprehensive nor prescriptive; in most cases, competencies used from this model to create job-related standards will depend on the practitioner's area of study.
Rather, the aim of this project is to present a user-friendly model of specific skills and knowledge necessary to effectively develop, implement, or oversee legal epidemiology studies.
Developed by the Public Health Law Program (PHLP) in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the LECM has the promise to 1) provide a common language to describe the critical skills and knowledge of practitioners engaged in the scientific study of law as a factor in the cause, distribution, and prevention of disease and injury; 2) drive the development of legal epidemiology-focused curricula, scholarly support, and additions to the literature; and 3) guide the development of products related to public health law research and training under federal capacity building cooperative agreements, and similar funding opportunities.
Many experts and organizations have supported the development of the LECM.
A multidisciplinary Expert Review Workgroup assisted the CDC team with the elements included in this final draft, providing suggestions and comments.
The Public Health Foundation (PHF) guided the model's validation and provided feedback on the framework of the draft model, project methodologies, and competency development process.
PHF also developed targeted communications materials from this work.
In May 2017, PHF hosted a virtual town hall meeting focused on the draft LECM that was attended by more than 130 people.
During and after this meeting, participants could provide input on the draft LECM.
That feedback is reflected in this version of the LECM.
Ideally, the LECM will be the standard used by practitioners to ensure that legal epidemiology deliverables, including trainings, are competency-based.
For instance, under an umbrella cooperative agreement managed by CDC's National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce (Public Health Infrastructure Center), ChangeLab Solutions has developed a series of competency-based legal epidemiology trainings using the previous version of the LECM as a guide.
These free, on-demand trainings are available on the Public Health Law Academy website .
Other anticipated uses of the LECM include: Updating and revising job descriptions by employers.
Providing career planning and self-assessment by employees.
Providing career guidance and exploration for students.
Developing Competency-based training and learning outcome objectives.
Developing, evaluating, and planning curricula.
Key assumptions about the LECM The LECM reflects the practice of legal epidemiology.
PHLP and the Expert Review Workgroup made certain assumptions about competency development in a transdisciplinary, cross-cutting, emerging field: Legal epidemiology recognizes that generating, analyzing, and communicating information about law through quantitative and qualitative analysis is essential to the promotion of population health.
Legal epidemiology practitioners, including non-attorneys, should possess basic competencies in public health law,C including understanding the process for creating and implementing law and policy, as well as basic principles of administrative and constitutional law.
These competencies do not limit the practice of legal epidemiology.
They reflect basic competencies at three tiers of practice within each domain.
They do not represent all of the necessary skills for every job, nor does every person working in the field need all of the competencies listed.
The model provides a broad set of skills and should be tailored for individual job descriptions and uses.
Organization of the LECM The LECM is organized into three major domains: General legal epidemiology competencies Legal mapping Legal evaluation Domain 1 focuses on cross-cutting knowledge.
It includes statements related to basic research and epidemiology skills needed to conduct and translate both types of legal epidemiology studies.
Domain 2 addresses those competencies needed for conducting legal mapping studies, including identifying the need for and designing policy surveillance projects.
Domain 3 focuses on legal evaluation and includes statements related to designing projects that study potential associations between health and law.
The organization of the LECM into three tiers (entry level, mid-tier, and senior manager/principal investigator) reflects three stages of legal epidemiology career development.
It closely mirrors the three stages of public health career development, as defined by PHF's Council on Linkages.
This framework, depicted in Figure 2 (see link below): Allows the competencies to build upon one another.
Supports those who are involved in legal epidemiology studies at progressive stages of their careers.
Provides guidance on identifying appropriate competencies for the relevant career stage.
Key behaviors are also offered to reflect each competency statement across each tier.
Key behaviors are those associated with each competency that the most competent public health practitioners will engage in while performing their jobs.
The LECM Figure 1—Domain 1: General Legal Epidemiology Competencies Figure 1—Domain 2: Competencies for Legal Mapping Studies Figure 1—Domain 3: Competencies for Legal Evaluation Studies Figure 2—Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development Acknowledgments and disclaimers This document was developed by Montrece McNeill Ransom, JD, MPH, team lead for public health law training and workforce development, PHLP, CSTLTS, CDC; Tara Ramanathan, JD, MPH, team lead for research and translation, PHLP, CSTLTS, CDC; Brianne Yassine, MPH, public health analyst/health education consultant, PHLP, Public Health Infrastructure Center, CDC.
Mariam Ahmed, legal intern, PHLP, CSTLTS, CDC; and Rose Meltzer, MPH student, Milken Institute School of Public Health, The George Washington University and administrative and communication intern, PHLP, CSTLTS, CDC.
LEMC Assistance‎ For further assistance, please contact PHLP at phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
Published March 2018.
ON THIS PAGE Legal Epidemiology Competency Model (LECM) Background and purpose Key assumptions about the LECM Organization of the LECM Acknowledgments and disclaimers RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine Research Anthology: Raw Milk Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development VIEW ALL Public Health Law Health Information & Privacy SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHAP Apply What Associates Do Associates' Stories Promotion & Recruitment Tools Applying to Host an Associate VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 7, 2025 Applying to Host an Associate KEY POINTS PHAP seeks host sites annually from state, tribal, local, and territorial public health agencies, and nongovernmental organizations to place associates in two-year assignments.
Host sites benefit from a unique partnership with CDC to develop the nation's next generation of public health professionals.
The application timeline and steps are provided for planning purposes.
Overview View Larger A Public Health Associate collects water samples from a roadside spring.
PHAP values its partnerships with public health agencies and tribal and nongovernmental organizations that serve as host sites for public health associates.
Each year, PHAP seeks host sites that can provide associates with hands-on learning opportunities for two-year public health assignments.
PHAP places early-career public health professionals in state, tribal, local, and territorial public health agencies, and nongovernmental organizations—such as community-based organizations, public health institutes and associations, and academic institutions—to increase capacity within the host site agency while allowing associates to gain broad experience in public health program operations.
Benefits of Being a Host Site While PHAP offers tremendous benefits to associates through training and support, the host site also receives numerous benefits, including: CDC-funded associates who are well-rounded, energetic, flexible, early-career individuals bringing valuable skills to host agencies A unique partnership with CDC to develop the nation's next generation of public health professionals Online learning opportunities for host site supervisors and access to CDC resources Learn more in this host site fact sheet.
Key Host Site Application Dates General Timeline The dates listed below are subject to change.
Dates Steps February Host site application cycle typically opens for 2-4 weeks in/around February.
Guidelines for completing the application package will be available and a brief training on the host site application system will be given.
March-May Program reviews host site applications and may request additional information June-July Program selects and matches associates to host sites Mid-June-Late August Program notifies host sites and associates of assignments Mid-October Associates report to host to begin two-year assignment November Associates attend PHAP orientation virtually or at CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia If you have questions about the application process, please contact the PHAP helpdesk.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Benefits of Being a Host Site Key Host Site Application Dates SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) The Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates (PHAP) is a competitive, two-year, paid training program with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
CDC Continuing Education (CE) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health CDC Continuing Education Accreditation Apply Types of CE for Health Professionals Roles & Responsibilities VIEW ALL View All Public Health MARCH 11, 2024 Roles and Responsibilities KEY POINTS The CE Developer is the primary point of contact for CDC during the accreditation process.
The CE Developer must form a planning committee.
CDC will assign a nurse planner to review the proposal and provide feedback.
If CPE or CHES will be offered, a pharmacy planner and/or CHES planner is needed to ensure the proposal meets requirements for pharmacy and health education.
Role of the CE Developer The CE Developer is usually the education developer within a CDC center, institute, or office (CIO) or a CDC-funded organization who serves as the primary point of contact between the organization requesting CE and CDC.
The Education Developer will also: Review and sign the "Responsibility Agreement and Continuing Education Timeline" which outlines deadlines for the educational activity.
Attend an orientation with the assigned CDC CE Consultant Establish a planning committee.
Provide completed CE proposal documents by the agreed upon deadlines.
Maintain contact with all confirmed planners and presenters to get required documents from each of them.
Defer to the CDC CE Consultant to clarify issues or uncertainties with the CE proposal documents.
Notify the CDC CE Consultant of any changes in the CE process or educational activity title, date, or time.
Ensure CE activity is accurately listed in CDC TRAIN.
The CE Developer should have knowledge of: The educational activity purpose and content Adult learning principles Educational principles: Assessing training needs Analyzing gaps in knowledge, skills, or practice Writing SMART learning objectives Writing goal statements Planning and implementing learning activities Evaluating outcomes Forming a Planning Committee The Education Developer must identify a group of experts that represent the activity's intended audience.
This group must include a representative for each of continuing education (CE).
This committee will help design and implement the educational activity.
CDC can help determine which roles to include on the planning committee.
Role of Nurse Planner CDC assigns a Nurse Planner from CDC's CE Accreditation Team to the program requesting CE for a specific educational activity.
The assigned nurse planner will provide feedback during the proposal process to help ensure the proposal meets accreditation requirements.
The nurse planner is a registered nurse with an active license.
Programs seeking Continuing Nursing Education (CNE) are encouraged to identify an additional nurse with an active license to serve as a planning committee member, a presenter, or subject matter expert on the content.
Primary Responsibilities Provide relevant insight on educational needs, intended audience, and learning assessments for each CNE activity.
Assure educational activities are planned according to current American Nurse Credentialing Center (ANCC) criteria, policies, and procedures, including the following: Identifying and addressing a professional practice gap.
Identifying one or more learning outcomes.
Using strategies to engage the learners in the educational activity.
Ensuring content is based on the most current evidence (may include, but is not limited to evidence-based practice, literature review, clinical guidelines, best practices).
Confirming that learning outcomes are evaluated appropriately.
Planning independently, without influence of commercial interest organizations.
The nurse planner is familiar with: Adult learning principles.
ANCC and Joint Accreditation continuing education requirements.
Role of Pharmacy Planner The pharmacy planner is a necessary member of the planning committee for Continuing Pharmacy Education (CPE) requests.
They should be a registered pharmacist with an active license.
Primary Responsibilities Serve as the pharmacy subject matter expert on the planning committee, providing relevant insight on educational needs, intended audience, and learning assessments for each CPE activity.
Review content and objectives to ensure compliance with Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) continuing education requirements.
Review the Educational Planning Tool for sufficient pharmacy content.
Assure educational activities are planned according to current ACPE criteria, policies, and procedures.
Assure the learning material being presented is appropriate for pharmacists.
The Pharmacy Planner should be familiar with: Adult learning principles.
The Center for the Advancement of Pharmacy Education (CAPE) objectives and educational outcomes.
ACPE continuing education requirements.
Role of the CHES/MCHES Planner The Certified Health Education Specialist (CHES®) /Master Certified Health Education Specialist (MCHES®) Planner is a necessary part of the planning committee when requesting CHES®/MCHES® continuing education.
Primary Responsibilities Have knowledge about: Assess training needs.
Analyze gaps in knowledge, skill, or practice.
Plan and implement learning activities.
Evaluate outcomes.
Assign the appropriate competencies and/or sub-competencies from the NCHEC eight areas of responsibility.
Serve as a liaison between the NCHEC and the planning committee.
Review the educational activity, assess objectives and content, and assign competencies/sub-competencies.
Assure educational activities are planned according to current NCHEC criteria, policies, and procedures.
Assure the learning material being presented is appropriate for the target audience identified.
Assure adult learning principles are considered in the educational activity planning process.
ON THIS PAGE Role of the CE Developer Role of Nurse Planner Role of Pharmacy Planner Role of the CHES/MCHES Planner RELATED PAGES CDC Continuing Education Accreditation Apply Types of CE for Health Professionals VIEW ALL CDC Continuing Education (CE) CDC Continuing Education Accreditation SOURCES PRINT SHARE CDC Continuing Education (CE) Learn how CDC accredits educational activities to support the agency's role of developing leaders and training the health workforce.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 Public Health MAY 16, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Federal law prohibits the sale of unpasteurized milk across state lines for human consumption, but individual state laws govern the sale of unpasteurized milk within states.
This page shows laws by state as of May 2019, when an assessment was conducted and may not represent current laws.
Background View Larger The map above shows the states in which sale of unpasteurized milk is allowed in retail stores, on the farm only, or prohibited.
It shows which states have laws that prohibit the sale of unpasteurized milk but allow legal access to unpasteurized milk...
Show More Human consumption of unpasteurized, or raw, milk is a serious public health concern.1 Pathogens found in raw milk that would be otherwise destroyed by pasteurization include E.
coli, Campylobacter, Salmonella, and Listeria, among others.2 Human infection with these pathogens can cause severe illness and death.3 Federal law prohibits the sale of unpasteurized milk across state lines, but individual state laws govern the sale of unpasteurized milk within the state.
These state laws vary widely.
While some states prohibit the sale of unpasteurized milk to consumers, other states allow its sale in retail stores or on the farm where the milk was produced.
An increasing number of states also expressly allow the distribution of unpasteurized milk through cow or herd shares.
Under these arrangements, an individual purchases an ownership share in a cow or herd and can obtain a portion of the raw milk produced, bypassing state laws that prohibit the retail sale of unpasteurized milk.
Recent trends in increased legalization are expected to increase the disease burden associated with human consumption of unpasteurized milk.4 Researchers from CDC's Public Health Law Program (PHLP) in the National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce conducted a longitudinal legal epidemiology study of state statutes and regulations governing the sale of unpasteurized cow's milk from 2012 to 2019.
A description of the PHLP study and a detailed analysis of foodborne illness outbreaks conducted by the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases can be found at Foodborne illness outbreaks linked to unpasteurised milk and relationship to changes in state laws – United States, 1998–2018 | Epidemiology & Infection | Cambridge Core .
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine Research Anthology: Raw Milk Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development Legal Epidemiology Competency Model Version 1.0 VIEW ALL Public Health Law Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Research Anthology: Raw Milk KEY POINTS Raw milk consumption is linked to a number of foodborne illnesses that can result in serious complications and death.
The federal government regulates interstate milk sales, but states control the sales within their own state.
Raw milk sales are trending upward in some states.
Public health concerns about raw milk consumption Raw milk, or unpasteurized milk, is a public health concern.A Studies have shown an association between the legal sale of unpasteurized dairy products and a higher incidence of related disease outbreaks.B Recent increases in raw milk availability have public health experts researching the risks and potential disease outbreaks that can result from its consumption.
Consuming raw milk is linked to a significant number of foodborne illnesses, some of which can result in serious complications and death.C A variety of pathogens cause these illnesses, including: Escherichia coli.
Campylobacter jejuni.
Salmonella Listeria monocytogenes.
Brucella abortus.D Exposures to Brucella strain RB51 are of recent concern.
It is both difficult to diagnose and resistant to the first-line antibiotic used to treat brucellosis.E Pasteurization protects public health Milk pasteurization, a heating process that destroys pathogens,F protects public health.
In 1947, Michigan was the first state to require milk pasteurization.G Since then, both the federal government and the states have played important roles in governing milk safety.
Under authority granted by the Commerce Clause of the US Constitution,H the federal government regulates the interstate sale of raw milk.
In 1987, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mandated pasteurization of all milk or milk products (with the exception of some cheeses) for sale or distribution in interstate commerce.I The FDA also regulates milk through its branding regulation.
This requires pasteurizing anything labeled as "milk" sold in interstate commerce.
Reason raw milk is still available While the federal government has authority to regulate interstate milk sales, individual states control the intrastate sale of dairy products.
Many states have adopted the Grade "A" Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, a model law by the US Department of Health and Human Services.
It prohibits the retail sale of unpasteurized milk.J Some states allow the distribution or sale of raw milk within their state in one or more of the following locations: Retail locations Individual farms Farmers' markets Cow or herd shares, an arrangement under which an individual owns part of a cow or herd and is entitled to the milk produced.K Raw milk demand increasing In recent years, consumer demand has resulted in expanded legal access to raw milk in several states.
Increased legalization of the intrastate sale of raw milk is expected to increase the disease burden associated with the consumption of raw milk.L Legal resources Expand All Federal laws on raw milk Surveys of state laws on raw milk Legal policy articles on raw milk Public health resources Expand All Disease outbreaks associated with raw milk Health risks associated with raw milk Potential benefits of raw milk Raw milk consumers (characteristics/motivations) Raw milk websites Raw Milk Information from CDC for consumers and researchers, with links to outbreak studies, resources and publications, questions and answers, infographics, and videos of individuals who describe their experiences with foodborne illness from raw milk.
Food Safety and Raw Milk Explains the role of the FDA in regulating raw milk and provides information for consumers and links to internal and external sites about raw milk.
Position statements of national organizations In addition to US government agencies, such as the FDA and CDC, the following national organizations have issued formal statements about the hazards of drinking raw milk and the need for pasteurization: Policy Statement: Sale or Distribution of Raw Milk , National Environmental Health Association; adopted January 28, 2008; revised July 2017 Compulsory Pasteurization of All Non-Human-Derived Animal Milk Products Intended for Human Consumption , American Public Health Association; Policy Number 20164, November 1, 2016 Consumption of Raw or Unpasteurized Milk and Milk Products by Pregnant Women and Children , American Academy of Pediatrics, Committee on Infectious Diseases, Committee on Nutrition; January 2014 Raw Milk Policy , American Veterinary Medical Association; undated (accessed June 2019) Acknowledgements and disclaimers Lisa Landsman, JD, MPH, Cherokee Nation Assurance (CNA) contractor and program analyst for the Public Health Law Program (PHLP) within the CDC National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce developed this anthology.
The author thanks Dawn Pepin, JD, MPH, and Rachel Hulkower, JD, MSPH, CNA, contractors with PHLP, for their editorial assistance.
Research for this anthology was on the consumption of fluid, unpasteurized cow's milk primarily in the United States using Westlaw and PubMed databases between February and May 2019.
For technical assistance with this anthology, please contact phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions of this summary are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the official position of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
ON THIS PAGE Public health concerns about raw milk consumption Pasteurization protects public health Reason raw milk is still available Legal resources Public health resources Raw milk websites Position statements of national organizations Acknowledgements and disclaimers RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development VIEW ALL Public Health Law Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine KEY POINTS Telehealth is the use of electronic and telecommunication devices to deliver health education and care.
It can potentially increase healthcare access, reduce costs, and improve health outcomes.
Barriers can include patient privacy, information security, and insurance reimbursement.
Overview of telehealth Expand All What telehealth is What telemedicine and eHealth are The benefits of telehealth The challenges of telehealth Telehealth adoption barriers The following resources identify and discuss barriers limiting the implementation and expansion of telehealth.
Utilization of Outpatient Telehealth Services in Parity and Nonparity States 2010–2015 , Jillian B.
Harvey et al., Telemedicine Journal and e-Health (2018),  .
Compares private insurance reimbursement rates for outpatient healthcare telehealth in states with and without laws requiring such reimbursement.
Telehealth and Remote Patient Monitoring Use in Medicare and Selected Federal Programs , United States Government Accountability Office (2017).
Highlights views of provider, payer, and patient associations about the potential benefits of and barriers to telehealth in government healthcare programs.
Provides data on the use of telehealth in services offered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Telehealth , Reed V.
Tuckson et al., 377 New England Journal of Medicine 1585 (2017), doi: 10.1056/NEJMsr1503323.
Reviews several reports and studies that inform the authors' policy recommendations.
Devotes much of the article to the disconnect between electronic health records, patient and provider interaction with software and devices.
Prioritizes a technological platform for telehealth that would serve as a sort of one-stop-shop for healthcare providers and consumers.
Legal Considerations in Telehealth and Telemedicine , Edie Brous, 116 American Journal of Nursing 64 (2016), doi:10.1097/01.NAJ.0000494700.78616.d3.
Subscription required.
Highlights many of the provider barriers surrounding telehealth and telemedicine, including lack of evidence for positive outcomes, liability concerns, technological barriers, and especially licensing requirements.
Provides a unique perspective, articulating barriers for nurses, who require their own state licensures, when much of the literature deals only with physicians.
State of Telehealth , E.
Ray Dorsey & Eric J.
Topol, 375 New England Journal of Medicine 154 (2016), doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1601705.
Subscription required.
Examines the exponential rise in the investment in, and adoption of telehealth.
Focuses on promising future applications, as well as limitations of the technology and healthcare industry.
Highlights social reasons that might limit expansion, including the high percentage of chronically ill patients over age 65 and the lower rates of internet usage by older and rural populations.
Telehealth Policy Trends and Considerations , National Conference of State Legislatures (2015).
Reviews state telehealth legislation and policies in 2015.
Analyzes many peer-reviewed studies indicating substantial cost savings and suggesting improved health outcomes.
Highlights the expansion of licensing compacts among states, as well as the proliferation of private payer reimbursement of telehealth services.
Private Payer Telehealth Reimbursement in the United States , Nina M.
Antoniotti et al., 20 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 539 (2014), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2013.0256.
Meta-analysis of the difficulties healthcare providers have navigating insurance codes and reimbursement.
Identifies government payers' influence over private payer insurance providers.
For Telehealth to Succeed, Privacy and Security Risks Must be Identified and Addressed , Joseph L.
Hall & Deven McGraw, 33 Health Affairs (Millwood) 216 (2014), doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0997.
Examines possible barriers to telehealth from privacy and security perspectives.
Addresses privacy regulation beyond the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) for information supplied and received by the patient.
Contemplates the rights of patients when they are forced to accept terms and licensing in order to use an app or device.
Telehealth cost and health outcomes Proponents of telehealth believe it will expand access, reduce costs, and improve health outcomes.
The following resources discuss attempts made by researchers to empirically evaluate claims that telehealth improves health outcomes, reduces healthcare costs, or both.
What is the Economic Evidence for mHealth?
A Systematic Review of Economic Evaluations of mHealth Solutions , Sarah J.
Iribarren et al., 12 Plos One (2017), doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0170581.
Summarizes and assesses the body of evidence related to economic evaluations of mobile health (mHealth) interventions.
Takes a conservative approach by limiting cost savings to primary outcomes.
Notes that most studies claiming cost benefits lack sufficient supporting evidence but supports an overall cost-effectiveness for mHealth interventions.
Warns against generalizing to all interventions.
Urban Telemedicine Enables Equity in Access to Acute Illness Care , Sarah D.
Ronis et al., 23 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 1 (2017), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2016.0098.
Studies urban telemedicine use for acute care compared to suburban populations without telehealth use.
Finds an overall cost savings, due largely to reductions in visits to the emergency department.
Reports that the use of telemedicine increased healthcare access substantially in the urban population.
Indicates providers reported that a majority of office visits could have taken place via telemedicine.
Telemedicine-Assisted Intubation in Rural Emergency Departments: A National Emergency Airway Registry Study , Lucas Van Oeveren et al., 23 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 1 (2017), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2016.0140.
Studies rural, Midwestern hospitals' use of telemedicine to assist nonemergency-trained physicians when they intubate patients.
Finds that health outcomes improved through use of the technology.
The Empirical Foundations of Telemedicine Interventions in Primary Care , Rashid Bashshur et al., 22 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 342 (2016), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2016.0045.
Reviews nearly three dozen studies of telemedicine intervention in primary care.
Finds that the studies commonly affirmed the feasibility and acceptance of telemedicine in primary care, and telemedicine typically resulted in care quality improvements and cost savings.
Cost-Utility and Cost-Effectiveness Studies of Telemedicine, Electronic, and Mobile Health Systems in the Literature: A Systematic Review , Isabel de la Torre-Díez et al.
21 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 81 (2015), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2014.0053.
Reviews thirty-five studies dealing with costs of various forms of telehealth.
Reports discrepancies in methods, aims, and results, prompting the authors to declare that current studies are inconclusive on the matters of cost-utility and cost-effectiveness of telehealth.
Interactive Telemedicine: Effects on Professional Practice and Health Care Outcomes , Gerd Flodgren et al., Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2015), doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD002098.pub2.
Meta-analyzes more than 90 studies evaluating telemedicine use and effectiveness across many medical conditions.
Looks at remote monitoring and real-time teleconferencing interventions.
Finds that cost-savings claims in telemedicine are inconclusive across studies, but a reduction in the number of hospitalizations for patients with chronic conditions is indicated.
Calls for further study.
Telepsychiatry Integration of Mental Health Services into Rural Primary Care Settings , John C.
Fortney et al., 27 International Review of Psychiatry 525 (2015), doi: 10.3109/09540261.2015.1085838.
Subscription required, link to abstract provided.
Compares several models that combine telepsychiatry with in-person care.
Concludes that telepsychiatry has the potential to significantly improve access to care, based on the results of implementation by the US Department of Veterans Affairs.
High-Intensity Telemedicine Decreases Emergency Department Use by Senior Living Community Residents , Manish N.
Shah et al., 22 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 251 (2015), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2015.0103.
Studies the effectiveness and acceptance of telemedicine in senior living communities.
Finds that more than 80 percent of residents surveyed would prefer a community with telemedicine capabilities for acute illness.
In terms of cost savings, finds an 18 percent reduction in emergency department visits annually, which the authors indicate is a conservative number based on study limitations.
Telehealth statutes and regulations Federal regulations generally pertain to use of telehealth in government-supported health care through the Department of Veterans Affairs and Medicare.
State laws govern use of telehealth in Medicaid programs, licensing requirements for practicing telehealth within the state, and private insurance reimbursement for telehealth services.
The following resources discuss state and federal statutes and regulations governing the use of telehealth.
State Telehealth Laws and Reimbursement Policies Report, Center for Connected Health Policy (2018).
Surveys 50 states and the District of Columbia on telehealth-related statutes, regulations, and Medicaid provider manuals.
Covers areas of telehealth and telemedicine definitions, insurance reimbursement, prescribing, consent, and location of services provided.
50-State Survey: Establishment of a Patient-Physician Relationship via Telemedicine , American Medical Association (2017).
Compiles a collection of laws demonstrating that all states allow physicians to establish new patient relationships via telemedicine, noting that state laws vary.
Provides a table of existing state laws with citations and the relevant language of each statute.
State Telemedicine Gap Analysis , American Telemedicine Association (2017).
Reports on coverage and reimbursement gaps in state laws related to provision of telehealth services.
Legal Mapping Analysis of State Telehealth Reimbursement Policies , Kate E.
Trout et al., 23 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 1 (2017), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2017.0016.
Surveys 50 states on state laws and policies relating to telehealth reimbursement implemented since 1997.
Identifies where policies exist, the types of telehealth covered or restricted by state, and the form of telehealth.
Provides a separate analysis of state Medicaid reimbursement.
Telehealth: Applications from a Legal and Regulatory Perspective , Rita M.
Marcoux & F.
Randy Vogenberg, 41 Pharmacology & Therapeutics 567 (2016).
Assesses policies and regulations, identifying which agencies have the ability to regulate telehealth and the scope of those regulatory authorities.
Points to successful government implementations of telehealth, but also acknowledges the lack of consistency across policies and the murky status of the law around telehealth.
and Territory Telemedicine Policies: Identifying Gaps in Perinatal Care , Ekwutosi M.
Okorohet et al., 215 American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology 1 (2016), doi:  .
Subscription required, link to abstract provided.
Surveys state telemedicine policies focused on three aspects of maternal and neonatal care: consultation, diagnosis, and treatment.
Notes only three states specifically mention maternal or neonatal concerns, while looking at 50 states, the District of Columbia, and eight territories for applicable, broad telemedicine policies.
HIPAA and Telehealth , Center for Connected Health Policy (2014).
Provides a concise guide to HIPAA compliance for covered entities using telehealth technologies for providing health care.
Specifically talks about the role of conduits, a narrowly defined role in information delivery, such as Skype and FaceTime.
Recent telehealth policy recommendations Telehealth faces regulation at multiple levels.
Each state sets its own rules for practicing telehealth within its borders.
Additionally, many federal agencies have the authority to regulate various aspects of telehealth.
The following resources identify the existing reach and gaps in the web of state and federal regulations and statutory provisions.
An Emergent Research and Policy Framework for Telehealth , Margo Edmunds et al., 5 Journal of Electronic Health Data and Methods (2017), doi: 
Proposes a framework for moving forward with telehealth, including standardization of terms and policies for both consistent outcomes in research and practice, and implementation of policies.
Health Policy Brief: Telehealth Parity Laws , Tony Yang, Health Affairs (2016), doi: 10.1377/hpb2016.12.
Provides a brief overview of the debate surrounding reimbursement parity.
Summarizes the concerns of the opponents to parity and offers support for parity through studies and other reports.
Briefly discusses state parity laws on the books in 2016.
Going Online With Telemedicine: What Barriers Exist and How Might They Be Resolved , Pierron Tackes, 11 Oklahoma Journal of Law & Technology 80 (2015).
Identifies obstacles to telemedicine policy as politically based rather than science based.
Contrasts the attempts at telemedicine expansion by the federal government with the hindering effects of state regulation of medical practice.
Proposes a solution of mandating arbitration for claims arising out of interstate telemedicine use.
Patient Safety Risks Associated with Telecare: A Systematic Review and Narrative Synthesis of the Literature , Veslemøy Guise et al., 14 BMC Health Services Research 588 (2014), doi: 
Analyzes several patient safety studies concerning telecare, identifying gaps in the research and potential areas for study.
Suggests a human factors framework to study patient safety risks of home telecare.
Interstate Licensure for Telemedicine: The Time Has Come , Mei Wa Kwong et al., 16 American Medical Association Journal of Ethics 1010 (2014), doi: 10.1001/virtualmentor.2014.16.12.pfor2-1412.
Addresses the need for uniform regulation of interstate medical licensing to better implement telemedicine and expand access.
Telehealth in rural areas A chief benefit of telehealth is the ability to provide access to medically underserved populations.
The following resources discuss attempts to broaden healthcare access through telehealth interventions, including successes and opportunities for expanding telehealth.
The Promise of Telehealth: Strategies to Increase Access to Quality Healthcare in Rural America , Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation, Harvard Law School (2018).
Identifies legal and administrative barriers and strategies for broadening the use of telehealth to increase healthcare access in rural communities.
Rural and Urban/Suburban Families' Use of a Web-Based Mental Health Intervention , Brian E.
Bunnell et al., 23 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 1 (2017), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2016.0153.
Investigates the applicability of web-based approaches to mental health care.
Finds that geographic differences did not affect the likelihood of patients or caregivers using the technology, suggesting that advancements in telehealth will lead to improved access to historically underserved rural areas.
Rural Family Physicians Are Twice as Likely to Use Telehealth as Urban Family Physicians , Anuradha Jetty et al., 24 Telemedicine Journal and e-Health 1 (2017), doi: 10.1089/tmj.2017.0161.
Studies the perceptions of family physicians in both rural and urban settings, comparing attitudes toward telehealth and likelihood of future use and controlling for a number of variables.
Rapid Growth in Mental Health Telemedicine Use Among Rural Medicare Beneficiares, Wide Variation Across States , Ateev Mehrotra et al., 36 Health Affairs (Millwood) 909 (2017), doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2016.1461.
Subscription required, link to abstract provided.
Studies telemedicine use from 2004 through 2014 among rural Medicare beneficiaries.
Finds that despite an annual growth rate of 28% over a decade, fewer than 1% of rural beneficiaries received any telemedicine care.
Focuses on how parity laws affect use of telemedicine.
Utilization of Telemedicine Among Rural Medicare Beneficiaries , Ateev Mehrotra et al., 315 Journal of the American Medical Association 2015 (2016), doi: 10.1001/jama.2016.2186.
Reviews use of telehealth services in rural populations with mental illness and coverage under Medicare.
Finds that telehealth use is concentrated geographically and used by an extremely small percentage of mental health care recipients under Medicare.
Telehealth in Rural America , National Advisory Committee on Rural Health and Human Services (2015).
Provides a policy brief on the current state of telehealth in rural areas at the federal level.
Indicates committee recommendations regarding expansion of telehealth to traditionally underserved areas, mostly concerning barriers caused by current Medicare reimbursement policies.
Transforming Rural Health Care: High-Quality, Sustainable Access to Specialty Care , Kavita Patel et al., Health Affairs Blog (2014).
Comments on the slow US adoption of telehealth, specifically the opportunities of expansion into rural areas.
Acknowledgments & disclaimers Jack Brackney, JD, MS, intern with the Public Health Law Program (PHLP) within CDC's National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce; Rachel Hulkower, JD, MSPH, and Dawn Pepin, JD, MPH, Cherokee Nation Assurance contractors with PHLP; and Russell McCord, JD, Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education fellow with CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities developed this document.
PHLP used online databases to create this resource.
PHLP searched in Google, PubMed, and WestLawNext for the terms “telemedicine,” “telehealth,” “ehealth,” and “mhealth,” along with “policy” and “law.” Searches were completed between August 2017 and September 2018.
PHLP used WestlawNext to conduct searches for legal publications and Google and PubMed for additional resources.
For further technical assistance with this inventory, please contact phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
Support for this research came in part by an appointment to the Research Participation Program at CDC administered by the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education through an interagency agreement between the US Department of Energy and CDC.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of CDC.
ON THIS PAGE Overview of telehealth Telehealth adoption barriers Telehealth cost and health outcomes Telehealth statutes and regulations Recent telehealth policy recommendations Telehealth in rural areas Acknowledgments & disclaimers RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Raw Milk Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 VIEW ALL Public Health Law Research Anthology: Raw Milk SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Appendices - MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities WHAT TO KNOW Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access charts of comparative information on state healthcare facilities' measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendices Return to: MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Me = measles requirement; Mu = mumps requirement; Ru = rubella requirement Appendix 1: Hospital Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All Hospitals General Acute Care Limited Service & Specialized Critical Access AK 7 AAC 12.650 X X X AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X HI Haw.
Rules § 11-93-14; § 11-93-2* X218 IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820 X220 MA 105 CMR 130.616; 130.520* X 105 CMR 130.626; 130.520* X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X MD COMAR 10.06.01.15; 10.06.01.02* X COMAR 10.07.01.34; 10.07.01.01* X COMAR 10.06.01.12; 10.06.01.02* X NM N.M.
Code 7.7.2 X X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43G–20.2; 8:43G–1.2* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2805-h; § 2801* X 10 NYCRR 405.21 X222 10 NYCRR 405.3 X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-16 § 1105; § 101* X WI Wis.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X215 A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X216 A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X217 CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X HI Haw.
Rules § 11-93-14; § 11-93-2* X219 IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820 X MA 105 CMR 130.616; 130.520* X 105 CMR 130.626; 130.520* X221 ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X MD COMAR 10.06.01.15; 10.06.01.02* X COMAR 10.07.01.34; 10.07.01.01* X COMAR 10.06.01.12; 10.06.01.02* X NM N.M.
Code 7.7.2 X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43G–20.2; 8:43G–1.2* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2805-h; § 2801* X 10 NYCRR 405.21 X 10 NYCRR 405.3 X223 OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-16 § 1105; § 101* X WI Wis.
Code § DHS 124.07; 124.02* X Requirement Type Appendix 1: Hospital Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin Offer Admin Ensure AK 7 AAC 12.650 XRu XRu AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XRu XRu A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XMu XMu A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XMe XMe CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E XMeMuRu XMeMuRu XMeMuRu HI Haw.
Rules § 11-93-14; § 11-93-2* XRu IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* XMe XMe 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820 XRu XRu MA 105 CMR 130.616; 130.520* XRu XMeMuRu 105 CMR 130.626; 130.520* XMeRu XMeRu ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* XMeMuRu XMeMuRu MD COMAR 10.06.01.15; 10.06.01.02* XRu XRu COMAR 10.07.01.34; 10.07.01.01* XMeMuRu COMAR 10.06.01.12; 10.06.01.02* XMe XMe NM N.M.
Code 7.7.2 XRu XRu NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43G–20.2; 8:43G–1.2* XMeRu XMeRu NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* XRu XRu NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2805-h; § 2801* XMeMuRu XMeMuRu 10 NYCRR 405.21 XRu 10 NYCRR 405.3 XMeRu XMeRu OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* XMeMuRu XMeMuRu RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * XMeMuRu XMeMuRu SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-16 § 1105; § 101* XRu WI Wis.
Code § DHS 124.07; 124.02* XMeMuRu XRu Exemptions Appendix 1: Hospital Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None Specified Medical213 Religious Philosophical214 AK 7 AAC 12.650 X AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X X HI Haw.
Rules § 11-93-14; § 11-93-2* X IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820 MA 105 CMR 130.616; 130.520* 105 CMR 130.626; 130.520* X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X X X MD COMAR 10.06.01.15; 10.06.01.02* X X COMAR 10.07.01.34; 10.07.01.01* X COMAR 10.06.01.12; 10.06.01.02* X X NM N.M.
Code 7.7.2 X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43G–20.2; 8:43G–1.2* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2805-h; § 2801* X X 10 NYCRR 405.21 X 10 NYCRR 405.3 X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-16 § 1105; § 101* WI Wis.
Code § DHS 124.07; 124.02* X Appendix 2- Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Me = measles requirement; Mu = mumps requirement; Ru = rubella requirement Facility Type Appendix 2: Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All Long-Term Care Facilities Nursing Facility Nursing Home Comprehensive Care Facility Long-Term Care for Under Age 22 Child Care Home or Child Care Unit Healthcare Facilities for children AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.3220; 300.330* X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1550; 340.1000* X229 77 Ill.
Code 390.3220; 390.330* X IN 410 IAC 16.2-6-2; 16.2-1.1-28* X 410 IAC 16.2-6-5; 16.2-1.1-28* X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X MD COMAR 10.07.02.21-1; 10.07.02.01* X MI Mich.
325.21403; 325.20102* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X X NY 10 NYCRR 415.26; 700.2*; 415.2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X X Individual Type Appendix 2: Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Individual Type State Citation Individual Type All Healthcare Workers (HCW) HCW with Specific Patient Contact All Patients Patient Under 15 Years of Age Woman Resident of Child-Bearing Age AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X226 A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X227 A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X228 CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.3220; 300.330* X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1550; 340.1000* X 77 Ill.
Code 390.3220; 390.330* X IN 410 IAC 16.2-6-2; 16.2-1.1-28* X 410 IAC 16.2-6-5; 16.2-1.1-28* X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X MD COMAR 10.07.02.21-1; 10.07.02.01* X MI Mich.
325.21403; 325.20102* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NY 10 NYCRR 415.26; 700.2*; 415.2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X Requirement Type Appendix 2: Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
Offer Admin.
Ensure AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XRu XRu A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XMu XMu A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XME XME CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E XMeMuRu XMeMuRu MeMuRu IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.3220; 300.330* XRu 77 Ill.
Code 340.1550; 340.1000* XRu 77 Ill.
Code 390.3220; 390.330* XRu IN 410 IAC 16.2-6-2; 16.2-1.1-28* MeRu XMeRu 410 IAC 16.2-6-5; 16.2-1.1-28* XRu XRu ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* XMeMuRu XMeMuRu MD COMAR 10.07.02.21-1; 10.07.02.01* XMeMuRu MI Mich.
325.21403; 325.20102* XMeMuRu XMeMuRu NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* XRu XRu NY 10 NYCRR 415.26; 700.2*; 415.2* XMeRu XMeRu RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * XMeMuRu XMeMuRu Exemptions Appendix 2: Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None Specified Medical224 Religious Philosophical225 AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CA 8 CCR § 5199; Appendix E X X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.3220; 300.330* X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1550; 340.1000* X 77 Ill.
Code 390.3220; 390.330* X IN 410 IAC 16.2-6-2; 16.2-1.1-28* X 410 IAC 16.2-6-5; 16.2-1.1-28* X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
264, § 2; §3; §4; §5; §6; §7; §1* X X X MD COMAR 10.07.02.21-1; 10.07.02.01* X MI Mich.
325.21403; 325.20102* X NV NAC 441A.675; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NY 10 NYCRR 415.26; 700.2*; 415.2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X Appendix 3- Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Me = measles requirement; Mu = mumps requirement; Ru = rubella requirement Facility Type Appendix 3: Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All Ambulatory Care Facilities Outpatient Clinic Kidney Disease Center Maternity Centers Surgical Center Birth Center AK 7 AAC 12.650; 12.990* AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CO 6 CCR 1011-1:XXII-V; 1011-1:XXII* DE 16 Del.
Code 4403-7.0; 4403-1.0* X IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X X X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820; 250.100* X X KY 902 Ky.
20:150 X MA 105 CMR 142.520; 142.100* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 810.16; He-P 810.03* X NV NAC 441A.675; 449.61166; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X X X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43A–3.7; 8:43A–1.3* X N.J.A.C.
8:43A–28.8; 8:43A–1.3* X NY 10 NYCRR 751.6; 14 NYCRR 825.12; 10 NYCRR 404.12; 14 NYCRR 599-1.12; 10 NYCRR 751.1*; 14 NYCRR 825.4*; 10 NYCRR 404.4* X 10 NYCRR 754.7; 754.1* X PA 28 Pa.
Code § 501.41; § 501.7 X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X X X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X WY WY Rules and Regulations HLTH HQ Ch.
6 §10 X D.C.
22-B DCMR § 2615; § 2699* X 22-B DCMR § 2617; § 2699* X Individual Type Appendix 3: Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Individual Type State Citation Individual Type All Healthcare Workers (HCWs) HCWs with Specific Patient Contact Pregnant Women and Mothers AK 7 AAC 12.650; 12.990* X AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X232 A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X233 A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X234 CO 6 CCR 1011-1:XXII-V; 1011-1:XXII* X DE 16 Del.
Code 4403-7.0; 4403-1.0* X IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820; 250.100* X KY 902 Ky.
20:150 X MA 105 CMR 142.520; 142.100* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 810.16; He-P 810.03* X NV NAC 441A.675; 449.61166; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43A–3.7; 8:43A–1.3* X N.J.A.C.
8:43A–28.8; 8:43A–1.3* X NY 10 NYCRR 751.6; 14 NYCRR 825.12; 10 NYCRR 404.12; 14 NYCRR 599-1.12; 10 NYCRR 751.1*; 14 NYCRR 825.4*; 10 NYCRR 404.4* X 10 NYCRR 754.7; 754.1* X PA 28 Pa.
Code § 501.41; § 501.7 X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X235 WY WY Rules and Regulations HLTH HQ Ch.
6 §10 X D.C.
22-B DCMR § 2615; § 2699* X 22-B DCMR § 2617; § 2699* X Requirement Type Appendix 3: Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
Offer Admin.
Ensure AK 7 AAC 12.650; 12.990* XRu XRu AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XRu XRu A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XMu XMu A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* XMe XMe CO 6 CCR 1011-1:XXII-V; 1011-1:XXII* XRu DE 16 Del.
Code 4403-7.0; 4403-1.0* XRu IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* XMe XMe 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820; 250.100* XRu XMeMuRu KY 902 Ky.
20:150 XMeMuRu MA 105 CMR 142.520; 142.100* XRu XRu NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 810.16; He-P 810.03* XRu NV NAC 441A.675; 449.61166; 441A.140*; 449.0151* XRu XRu NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43A–3.7; 8:43A–1.3* XMeRu N.J.A.C.
8:43A–28.8; 8:43A–1.3* XRu XMeMuRu NY 10 NYCRR 751.6; 14 NYCRR 825.12; 10 NYCRR 404.12; 14 NYCRR 599-1.12; 10 NYCRR 751.1*; 14 NYCRR 825.4*; 10 NYCRR 404.4* XMeRu XMeRu 10 NYCRR 754.7; 754.1* XRu XMeMuRu PA 28 Pa.
Code § 501.41; § 501.7 XRu RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * XMeMuRu XMeMuRu SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* XMeRu236 XMeRu237 WY WY Rules and Regulations HLTH HQ Ch.
6 §10 XRu D.C.
22-B DCMR § 2615; § 2699* XRu XRu 22-B DCMR § 2617; § 2699* XRu Exemptions Appendix 3: Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws - Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None Specified Medical230 Religious Philosophical231 AK 7 AAC 12.650; 12.990* X AZ A.A.C.
R9-6-365; R9-6-366; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-353; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X A.A.C.
R9-6-350; R9-6-101*; A.R.S.
§ 36-401* X CO 6 CCR 1011-1:XXII-V; 1011-1:XXII* X DE 16 Del.
Code 4403-7.0; 4403-1.0* X IL 77 Ill.
Code 690.520; 690.10* X 77 Ill.
Code 250.1820; 250.100* X KY 902 Ky.
20:150 X MA 105 CMR 142.520; 142.100* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 810.16; He-P 810.03* X NV NAC 441A.675; 449.61166; 441A.140*; 449.0151* X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:43A–3.7; 8:43A–1.3* X N.J.A.C.
8:43A–28.8; 8:43A–1.3* X NY 10 NYCRR 751.6; 14 NYCRR 825.12; 10 NYCRR 404.12; 14 NYCRR 599-1.12; 10 NYCRR 751.1*; 14 NYCRR 825.4*; 10 NYCRR 404.4* X 10 NYCRR 754.7; 754.1* X PA 28 Pa.
Code § 501.41; § 501.7 X RI R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:4.0 ; 31-1-22:2.0*; 31-1-22:1.0 * X SC S.C.
Code of Regulations R.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X X WY WY Rules and Regulations HLTH HQ Ch.
6 §10 X D.C.
22-B DCMR § 2615; § 2699* X 22-B DCMR § 2617; § 2699* X ON THIS PAGE Appendices Appendix 1: Hospital Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Individual Type Requirement Type Exemptions Appendix 2- Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Facility Type Individual Type Requirement Type Exemptions Show More RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Appendices - Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine Research Anthology: Raw Milk VIEW ALL Public Health Law Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development AT A GLANCE Learn more about the three stages of legal epidemiology career development that provide general guidance about different roles and responsibilities within a legal epidemiology project.
Figure 2 Three Stages of Legal Epidemiology Career Development Additional information Figure 1—Domain 1: General Legal Epidemiology Competencies Figure 1—Domain 2: Competencies for Legal Mapping Studies Figure 1—Domain 3: Competencies for Legal Evaluation Studies RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine Research Anthology: Raw Milk Map of State Laws on the Sale of Unpasteurized Cow's Milk, 2012–2019 Legal Epidemiology Competency Model Version 1.0 VIEW ALL Public Health Law Legal Epidemiology Competency Model Version 1.0 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 State Healthcare Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR) Vaccination Laws WHAT TO KNOW State healthcare facilities can have requirements for vaccines for patients and healthcare workers that vary across the country.
Find information about requirements and exemptions for measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccines.
Purpose This menu is one of a series of menus assessing vaccination requirements for patients and healthcare workers in healthcare facilities.
Healthcare facilities across the United States are increasingly requiring healthcare workers and patients to be vaccinated for certain vaccine-preventable diseases to reduce disease outbreaks.1 In some instances, facilities are establishing these requirements under mandates set forth by state statutes or regulations.
Depending on the vaccine, the legal requirements might apply to either patients, healthcare workers, or both, and can include the following types of provisions: Assessment requirements: The healthcare facility must assess a healthcare worker's or patient's vaccination status.2 Administrative requirements for offering vaccination: The healthcare facility must offer a vaccination to a healthcare worker or patient.3 Administrative requirements for ensuring vaccination: The healthcare facility must require a healthcare worker or patient to demonstrate proof of vaccination or immunity against a specific vaccine preventable disease.
Chan School of Public Health and Summer 2016 Extern Dawn Pepin, JD, MPH, contractor, Cherokee Nation Assurance, LLC Aila Hoss, JD, former contractor, Carter Consulting, Inc.
This document was produced in collaboration with CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
The authors thank Lindsay Culp, JD, MPH; Megan Lindley, MPH; Tara Ramanathan, JD, MPH; and Matthew Penn, JD, MLIS, for their research and editorial assistance.
For further technical assistance with this inventory, please contact phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
This menu includes states laws collected from WestlawNext, June 6–July 5, 2016.
Appendices Appendix 1: Hospital Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Facility Type Individual Type Requirement Type Exemptions Appendix 2: Long-Term Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Facility Type Individual Type Requirement Type Exemptions Appendix 3: Ambulatory Care Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccination Laws Facility Type Individual Type Requirement Type Exemptions See a combined PDF of these tables.
ON THIS PAGE Purpose Hospital MMR vaccination laws Long-term care facility MMR vaccination laws Ambulatory care facility MMR vaccination laws Acknowledgments and disclaimers Appendices RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Appendices - Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Research Anthology: Telehealth and Telemedicine VIEW ALL Public Health Law MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Appendices: Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities AT A GLANCE Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access comparative charts of information on ambulatory care facilities' hepatitus B (HepB) vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendix 1 State Healthcare Facility Hep B Vaccination Laws Facility type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All hospitals Birthing hospitals AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X152 AR Code Ark.
007.05.17-18; 007.05.10-18007.05.17-3* X153, 154 ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-13-5; 310:667-1-2* X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X TX 25 Tex.
Code § 133.41; § 133.2* X157 WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X - Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 207; § 299* X Individual type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Individual Type State Citation Individual Type All healthcare workers (HCWs) HCWs at risk All patients Newborns AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.17-18; 007.05.10-18007.05.17-3* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X156 OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-13-5; 310:667-1-2* X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X TX 25 Tex.
Code § 133.41; § 133.2* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 207; § 299* X Requirement type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X X AR Code Ark.
007.05.17-18; 007.05.10-18007.05.17-3* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X X155 X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-13-5; 310:667-1-2* X X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X X TX 25 Tex.
Code § 133.41; § 133.2* X X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 207; § 299* X X Exemptions—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified Medical150 Religious Philosophical151 Other AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.17-18; 007.05.10-18007.05.17-3* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X X X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X X X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-5-4; 310:667-1-2* X OK Okla.
Code 310:667-13-5; 310:667-1-2* X X X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X TX 25 Tex.
Code § 133.41; § 133.2* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 207; § 299* X X X158 Appendix 2 Facility type— Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All long-term care facilities Nursing facilities Nursing homes AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X IL 210 Ill.
Ann 45/2-213; 45/1-113* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X NJ N.J.
Code 8:39–20.1; §8:39-1.2*; §8:85–1.2* X RI R.I.
Code R.31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X SC S.C.
61-17 X TX 40 Tex.
Code §19.1601; § 19.101*; X X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-130; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X Individual type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Individual Type State Citation Individual Type All healthcare workers (HCWs) HCWs at risk All patients Patients at risk AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X IL 210 Ill.
Ann 45/2-213; 45/1-113* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X NJ N.J.
Code 8:39–20.1; §8:39-1.2*; §8:85–1.2* X RI R.I.
Code R.31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X SC S.C.
61-17 X TX 40 Tex.
Code §19.1601; § 19.101*; X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-130; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X Requirement type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assess-ment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X X IL 210 Ill.
Ann 45/2-213; 45/1-113* X X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X X161 X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X NJ N.J.
Code 8:39–20.1; §8:39-1.2*; §8:85–1.2* X RI R.I.
Code R.31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X X SC S.C.
61-17 X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §19.1601; § 19.101*; X X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-130; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X Exemptions—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified Medical159 Religious Philosophical160 AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X IL 210 Ill.
Ann 45/2-213; 45/1-113* X ME 22 M.R.S.A.
§ 802; 22 § 801* X X X ME Code Me.
264, §7; Ch.
264 § 2; Ch.
264§ 3, Ch.
264 § 1* X X X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X NJ N.J.
Code 8:39–20.1; §8:39-1.2*; §8:85–1.2* X RI R.I.
Code R.31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X SC S.C.
61-17 X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §19.1601; § 19.101*; X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-130; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WV W.
64-82-8; 64-82-3* X Appendix 3 Facility type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities (ACFs) Facility Type State Citation Facility Type All ACFs Abortion center Surgical center Birth center Renal disease treatment facility Dialysis center AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X X AR Code Ark.
007.05.2-10; 007.05.2-3* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.12-12; 007.05.12-3* X IL Ill.
77, § 265.1750; § 265.1050* X KS K.A.R.
28-4-1312; 28-4-550* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X NV NAC 449.5315; 449.53; 449.507*; Nev.
§ 449.0046* X NY N.Y.
10, § 420.4; § 420.1* X164 OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-83-23.4; 3701-83-23.2; 3701-83-23* X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X SC S.C.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X TX 25 Tex.
Code§ 117.33; § 117.2* X VA 12 Va.
Code 5-412-220; 5-412-10* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WA Wash.
Code 246-329-110 X Individual type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities (ACFs) Individual Type State Citation Individual Type All healthcare workers HCWs) HCWs at risk All patients Newborns AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.2-10; 007.05.2-3* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.12-12; 007.05.12-3* X IL Ill.
77, § 265.1750; § 265.1050* X KS K.A.R.
28-4-1312; 28-4-550* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X NV NAC 449.5315; 449.53; 449.507*; Nev.
§ 449.0046* X NY N.Y.
10, § 420.4; § 420.1* X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-83-23.4; 3701-83-23.2; 3701-83-23* X X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X SC S.C.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X TX 25 Tex.
Code§ 117.33; § 117.2* X X VA 12 Va.
Code 5-412-220; 5-412-10* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WA Wash.
Code 246-329-110 X Requirement type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities (ACFs) Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X X AR Code Ark.
007.05.2-10; 007.05.2-3* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.12-12; 007.05.12-3* X IL Ill.
77, § 265.1750; § 265.1050* X X KS K.A.R.
28-4-1312; 28-4-550* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X NV NAC 449.5315; 449.53; 449.507*; Nev.
§ 449.0046* X X NY N.Y.
10, § 420.4; § 420.1* X X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-83-23.4; 3701-83-23.2; 3701-83-23* X X RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X X SC S.C.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X X TX 25 Tex.
Code§ 117.33; § 117.2* X X VA 12 Va.
Code 5-412-220; 5-412-10* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X X WA Wash.
Code 246-329-110 X X Exemptions—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities (ACFs) Exemptions Type State Citation Exemptions None specified Medical162 Religious Philosophical163 Other AK Alaska Admin.
7, §12.650; §12.600; §12.990* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.2-10; 007.05.2-3* X AR Code Ark.
007.05.12-12; 007.05.12-3* X IL Ill.
77, § 265.1750; § 265.1050* X KS K.A.R.
28-4-1312; 28-4-550* X MI Mich.
325.70013; 325.70016; 325.70015; 325.70001* X X NV NAC 449.5315; 449.53; 449.507*; Nev.
§ 449.0046* X NY N.Y.
10, § 420.4; § 420.1* X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-83-23.4; 3701-83-23.2; 3701-83-23* RI R.I.
31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:1.0*; 31-1-22:2.0* X X SC S.C.
61-91.1502; 61-91.101* X X TX 25 Tex.
Code§ 117.33; § 117.2* X VA 12 Va.
Code 5-412-220; 5-412-10* X WA Wash.
Code 296-823-13005; 296-823-130; 296-823-17005; 296-823-13010; 296-823-099*; 296-823-100* X WA Wash.
Code 246-329-110 X ON THIS PAGE Appendix 1 Facility type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Individual type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Requirement type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Exemptions—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Hospitals Appendix 2 Facility type— Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Individual type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Requirement type—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Exemptions—Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws for Long-Term Care Facilities Show More RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Appendices - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law MMR Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthcare-Associated Infections (HAIs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Disruptions in Availability of BD BACTEC Blood Culture Bottles Situation Summary About Updates Health Department HAI/AR Programs VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Cleaning in Global Healthcare Settings Reducing Risk: Surfaces in Healthcare Facilities Introduction to the Patient Notification Toolkit HAI Prevention and Control for Healthcare VIEW ALL Public Health Public Health and Policy Strategies Resources for Public Health Prevention Epicenters Healthcare-Associated Infections - Community Interface Activity (HAIC) HAIs: Reports and Data Research Preventing MDROs Laboratory Resources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Antibiotic Prescribing and Use | Antimicrobial Resistance | C.
diff | Infection Control for Healthcare Providers | Safe Injection Practices and Your Health | Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) Basics View All Guide to Infection Prevention for Outpatient Settings: Minimum Expectations for Safe Care SEPT.
30, 2025 AT A GLANCE Infection prevention recommendations for outpatient (ambulatory care) settings based primarily upon elements of Standard Precautions and represents the minimum infection prevention expectations for safe care in ambulatory care settings.
These recommendations reflect existing evidence-based guidelines produced by CDC and the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee.
Format: PDF Page count: 44 Language: English (US) Size: 1 MB Developed by: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) View Additional languages Spanish Outpatient Guide Spanish Download Spanish Outpatient Checklist Spanish Download Additional formats Fillable Version: Infection Prevention for Outpatient Settings (Checklist Only) Download Infection Prevention for Outpatient Settings (Checklist only) Download ON THIS PAGE Additional languages Additional formats SOURCES PRINT SHARE HAIs HAIs are associated with medical devices, complications following surgery, transmission between patients and healthcare workers, antibiotic overuse, and more.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Appendices: Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities AT A GLANCE Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access charts of comparative information on ambulatory care facilities' influenza vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendix 1: Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Facility type—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Appendix 1 – Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws – Ambulatory Care Facility Type State Citation Ambulatory Care Facility Type All AC facilities Outpatient facility Ambulatory surgical center Renal dialysis center Diagnostic center Birthing center Treatment center Clinic Freestanding emergencies CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10), (j)(1)(B)(2), (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X X CO 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8; 1011-1:XX-2* X 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X X X MA 105 Mass.
140.150, 140.020* X NV Nev.
Code § 439.935; Nev.
§§ 439.805,* 449.013,* 449.019,* 449.0155* X X X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 812.20, 812.03(i)* X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 309.02(d), 309.08(c), 309.01,* 812.03(i)* X N.H.
§ 151:33(IIa), (IIb) N N.H.
Code Admin.
He-Hea 1902.01* X X NY 10 N.Y.
751.6, 751.1* X X 10 N.Y.
Health Law § 2801(1)* X X X X OR Or.
333-018-0127, 333-018-0100(2), (13)* Or.
§ 442.015* X X RI 31 R.I.
1-22:3.5.4, 1-22:5.0; 1-22:1.6,* 1-22:2.1* X66 X X X X X X X SC S.C.
Code Ann Regs.
61-91 §§ 1502, 101(E)* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-24-.06, 1200-08-24-.01* X Tenn.
1200-08-35-.06, 1200-08-35-.01* X Tenn.
1200-08-32-.04, 1200-08-32-.01* X Tenn.
1200-08-10-.06, 1200-08-10-.04, 1200-08-10-.01* X Tenn.
1200-08-30-.05, 1200-08-30-.01* X71 Requirement type—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Administrative offer Administrative ensure Surgical mask CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10), (j)(1)(B)(2), (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X X CO 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8; 1011-1:XX-2* X X59 X60 X61 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X MA 105 Mass.
140.150, 140.020* X X NV Nev.
Code § 439.935; Nev.
§§ 439.805,* 449.013,* 449.019,* 449.0155* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 812.20, 812.03(i)* X X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 309.02(d), 309.08(c), 309.01,* 812.03(i)* X N.H.
§ 151:33(IIa), (IIb) N N.H.
Code Admin.
He-Hea 1902.01* X NY 10 N.Y.
751.6, 751.1* X X X 10 N.Y.
Health Law § 2801(1)* X X OR Or.
333-018-0127, 333-018-0100(2), (13)* Or.
§ 442.015* X RI 31 R.I.
1-22:3.5.4, 1-22:5.0; 1-22:1.6,* 1-22:2.1* X X X SC S.C.
Code Ann Regs.
61-91 §§ 1502, 101(E)* X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-24-.06, 1200-08-24-.01* X X67 Tenn.
1200-08-35-.06, 1200-08-35-.01* X X68 Tenn.
1200-08-32-.04, 1200-08-32-.01* X X69 Tenn.
1200-08-10-.06, 1200-08-10-.04, 1200-08-10-.01* X X70 Tenn.
1200-08-30-.05, 1200-08-30-.01* X X72 Exemptions—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified57, 64, 73 Medical Religious Philosophical58, 65, 74 CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10), (j)(1)(B)(2), (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X X CO 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8; 1011-1:XX-2* X 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X62 X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X X X MA 105 Mass.
140.150, 140.020* X X X NV Nev.
Code § 439.935; Nev.
§§ 439.805,* 449.013,* 449.019,* 449.0155* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 812.20, 812.03(i)* X63 N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 309.02(d), 309.08(c), 309.01,* 812.03(i)* X N.H.
§ 151:33(IIa), (IIb) N N.H.
Code Admin.
He-Hea 1902.01* X NY 10 N.Y.
751.6, 751.1* X 10 N.Y.
Health Law § 2801(1)* X OR Or.
333-018-0127, 333-018-0100(2), (13)* Or.
§ 442.015* X X RI 31 R.I.
1-22:3.5.4, 1-22:5.0; 1-22:1.6,* 1-22:2.1* X X SC S.C.
Code Ann Regs.
61-91 §§ 1502, 101(E)* X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-24-.06, 1200-08-24-.01* X X Tenn.
1200-08-35-.06, 1200-08-35-.01* X X Tenn.
1200-08-32-.04, 1200-08-32-.01* X X Tenn.
1200-08-10-.06, 1200-08-10-.04, 1200-08-10-.01* X X Tenn.
1200-08-30-.05, 1200-08-30-.01* X X Appendix 2: Facility type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Facility Type State Citation Ambulatory Care Facility Type All ambulatory care End stage renal dialysis TX Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0052, 251.001* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 117.33, 117.2* X Patient type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Patient Type State Citation Patient Type All patients 65+ years of age TX Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0052, 251.001* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 117.33, 117.2* X Requirement type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Administrative Offer Administrative Ensure TX Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0052, 251.001* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 117.33, 117.2* X Exemptions—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None Specified73 Medical Religious Philosophical74 TX Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0052, 251.001* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 117.33, 117.2* 25 Tex.
Code §§ 117.33, 117.2* X ON THIS PAGE Appendix 1: Facility type—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Requirement type—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Exemptions—Ambulatory Care Facility Healthcare Worker Influenza Vaccination Laws Appendix 2: Facility type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Patient type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Requirement type—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws Exemptions—Ambulatory Care Facility Patient Influenza Vaccination Laws RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Appendix 2 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Patients in State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities Appendices - Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Hep B Vaccination Laws for State Healthcare Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Appendix 2 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Patients in State Long-Term Care Facilities WHAT TO KNOW Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access charts of comparative information on long-term care (LTC) facilities' influenza vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendix 2 Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Long-Term Care (LTC) Facility Type Facility Type State Citation LTC Facility Type All LTC facilities Nursing facilities101 Nursing homes Life care facilities Veterans’ homes Residential care centers Comprehensive care facilities Intermediate care facilities AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X AZ Ariz.
§§ 36-406; 36-401* X Ariz.
Code § R9-10-413 Ariz.
§ 36-401* X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X CA Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.4; 120392.6; 120392* X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT Conn.
§§ 19a-522; 19a-490* X Conn.
Agencies Regs.
§§ 19-13-D8t; 19-13-D1(b)(3)(C)* X105 DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0; 3201-2.0* X FL Fla.
§§ 400.141; 400.021* X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-2.1; 31-7-1* X Ga.
111-8-56-.27; 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §§ 11-94.1-42; 11-94.1-2* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 300.1060; 300.330* X Ill.
77, §§ 340.1640; 340.1000* X Ill.
77, §§ 390.1140; 390.110* X106 210 Ill.
45/2-213; 45/1-102* X 210 Ill.
40/10.1; 40/2* X IN Ind.
§§ 16-28-14-3; 16-28-14-5; 16-28-14-6; 16-28-15-3;* 16-28-14-2* X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
§ 216.510* X ME 10-144-101 Me.
II § 67* X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X109 MI Mich.
§§ 333.21716; 333.21701-333.201703* X NE Neb.
§§ 71-468; 71-420;* 71-424* X X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X X X NJ N.J.
Code §§ 8:39–19.4; 8:39–1.2* X N.J.
Code §§ 8:43–16.2; 8:43–1.3* X N.J.
Code §§ 5:27A–16.2; 5:27A–1.3* X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2193; 2195; 2191* X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-13 Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-58; Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2 X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.4; 632.6; 632.2* X RI R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-4; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X SC S.C.
61-17* X SD S.D.
44:73:04:09; S.D.
Codified Laws § 34-12-1.1(6)* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201 Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
432-40* X VA Va.
§§ 32.1-127; 32.1-123* X X 12 Va.
Code §§ 5-371-110; 5-371-10* X X WA Wash.
Code § 388-97-1340; 388-97-0001* X Wash.
§§ 74.42.285; 74.42.010* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X Patient Type Patient Type State Citation Patient Type All patients 65+ years AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X AZ Ariz.
§§ 36-406; 36-401* X Ariz.
Code § R9-10-413 Ariz.
§ 36-401* X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X CA Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.4; 120392.6; 120392* X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT Conn.
§§ 19a-522; 19a-490* X Conn.
Agencies Regs.
§§ 19-13-D8t; 19-13-D1(b)(3)(C)* X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0; 3201-2.0* X FL Fla.
§§ 400.141; 400.021* X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-2.1; 31-7-1* X Ga.
111-8-56-.27; 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §§ 11-94.1-42; 11-94.1-2* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 300.1060; 300.330* X Ill.
77, §§ 340.1640; 340.1000* X Ill.
77, §§ 390.1140; 390.110* X107 210 Ill.
45/2-213; 45/1-102* X 210 Ill.
40/10.1; 40/2* X IN Ind.
§§ 16-28-14-3; 16-28-14-5; 16-28-14-6; 16-28-15-3;* 16-28-14-2* X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
§ 216.510* X ME 10-144-101 Me.
II § 67* X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X MI Mich.
§§ 333.21716; 333.21701-333.201703* X NE Neb.
§§ 71-468; 71-420;* 71-424* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X NJ N.J.
Code §§ 8:39–19.4; 8:39–1.2* X N.J.
Code §§ 8:43–16.2; 8:43–1.3* X N.J.
Code §§ 5:27A–16.2; 5:27A–1.3* X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2193; 2195; 2191* X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-13 Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-58; Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2 X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.4; 632.6; 632.2* X RI R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-4; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X SC S.C.
61-17* X SD S.D.
44:73:04:09; S.D.
Codified Laws § 34-12-1.1(6)* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201 Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
432-40* X VA Va.
§§ 32.1-127; 32.1-123* X 12 Va.
Code §§ 5-371-110; 5-371-10* X WA Wash.
Code § 388-97-1340; 388-97-0001* X Wash.
§§ 74.42.285; 74.42.010* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X Requirement Type Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X X X AZ Ariz.
§§ 36-406; 36-401* X Ariz.
Code § R9-10-413 Ariz.
§ 36-401* X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X X CA Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.4; 120392.6; 120392* X X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT Conn.
§§ 19a-522; 19a-490* X Conn.
Agencies Regs.
§§ 19-13-D8t; 19-13-D1(b)(3)(C)* X X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0; 3201-2.0* X X FL Fla.
§§ 400.141; 400.021* X X X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-2.1; 31-7-1* X Ga.
111-8-56-.27; 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §§ 11-94.1-42; 11-94.1-2* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 300.1060; 300.330* X X X Ill.
77, §§ 340.1640; 340.1000* X X X Ill.
77, §§ 390.1140; 390.110* X X X 210 Ill.
45/2-213; 45/1-102* X X 210 Ill.
40/10.1; 40/2* X X IN Ind.
§§ 16-28-14-3; 16-28-14-5; 16-28-14-6; 16-28-15-3;* 16-28-14-2* X X X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X X X 902 Ky.
§ 216.510* X X ME 10-144-101 Me.
II § 67* X X X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X X X MI Mich.
§§ 333.21716; 333.21701-333.201703* X NE Neb.
§§ 71-468; 71-420;* 71-424* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X X X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X NJ N.J.
Code §§ 8:39–19.4; 8:39–1.2* X X X N.J.
Code §§ 8:43–16.2; 8:43–1.3* X X X N.J.
Code §§ 5:27A–16.2; 5:27A–1.3* X X X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2193; 2195; 2191* X111 X X112 NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X X X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-13 Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X113 Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-58; Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2 X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.4; 632.6; 632.2* X X X RI R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-4; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X X X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X X X SC S.C.
61-17* X SD S.D.
44:73:04:09; S.D.
Codified Laws § 34-12-1.1(6)* X X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X X X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201 Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X X X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
432-40* X X VA Va.
§§ 32.1-127; 32.1-123* X X 12 Va.
Code §§ 5-371-110; 5-371-10* X X WA Wash.
Code § 388-97-1340; 388-97-0001* X Wash.
§§ 74.42.285; 74.42.010* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X X X Exemptions Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified102 Medical Religious Philosophical103 AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X X X AZ Ariz.
§§ 36-406; 36-401* X Ariz.
Code § R9-10-413 Ariz.
§ 36-401* X X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X X X104 Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X X CA Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.4; 120392.6; 120392* X X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X X CT Conn.
§§ 19a-522; 19a-490* X X Conn.
Agencies Regs.
§§ 19-13-D8t; 19-13-D1(b)(3)(C)* X X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0; 3201-2.0* X X FL Fla.
§§ 400.141; 400.021* X X X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-2.1; 31-7-1* X Ga.
111-8-56-.27; 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §§ 11-94.1-42; 11-94.1-2* X X IL Ill.
77, §§ 300.1060; 300.330* X X Ill.
77, §§ 340.1640; 340.1000* X X Ill.
77, §§ 390.1140; 390.110* X X 210 Ill.
45/2-213; 45/1-102* X X 210 Ill.
40/10.1; 40/2* X X IN Ind.
§§ 16-28-14-3; 16-28-14-5; 16-28-14-6; 16-28-15-3;* 16-28-14-2* X X X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X X X 902 Ky.
§ 216.510* X X ME 10-144-101 Me.
II § 67* X X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X X X MI Mich.
§§ 333.21716; 333.21701-333.201703* X NE Neb.
§§ 71-468; 71-420;* 71-424* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X X X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 805.03;* N.H.
§ 151:9-b X109 X110 N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X NJ N.J.
Code §§ 8:39–19.4; 8:39–1.2* X X N.J.
Code §§ 8:43–16.2; 8:43–1.3* X X N.J.
Code §§ 5:27A–16.2; 5:27A–1.3* X X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2193; 2195; 2191* X X X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X X X OH Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-13 Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X X Ohio Admin.
Code 3701-17-58; Ohio Rev.
§§ 3721.041; 3721.01* X X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2 X X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.4; 632.6; 632.2* X X X RI R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-4; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X X X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X X X SC S.C.
61-17* X X SD S.D.
44:73:04:09; S.D.
Codified Laws § 34-12-1.1(6)* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201 Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
432-40* X X VA Va.
§§ 32.1-127; 32.1-123* X X 12 Va.
Code §§ 5-371-110; 5-371-10* X X WA Wash.
Code § 388-97-1340; 388-97-0001* X Wash.
§§ 74.42.285; 74.42.010* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X X X ON THIS PAGE Appendix 2 Long-Term Care (LTC) Facility Type Patient Type Requirement Type Exemptions RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Appendix 1 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Appendices - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Appendix 1 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in State Long-Term Care Facilities WHAT TO KNOW Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access charts of comparative information on long-term care facilities' influenza vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendix 1 Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Long-Term Care (LTC) Facility Type Facility Type State Citation Long-Term Care (LTC) Facility Type All LTC facilities Nursing facilities Nursing homes Residential care facilities Life care facilities Veterans homes AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10); (j)(1)(B)(2); (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X CO 6 Colo.
§ 1011-1:II-10* X 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X DE 16 Del.
Code §§ 3201-5.0; 3201-2.0* X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-19; 31-7-1* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
§§ 209.550;* 216.510* X ME 10-144-264 Me.
§§ 2; 3; 4; 7; 1;* 10-144-110 Me.
22, §§ 802; 1812-A* X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X95 MA 105 Mass.
150.002; 150.001* X MO Mo.
§§ 198.054; 198.006* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03* X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 803.03* X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X X X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2194; 2195; 2191* X N.Y.
10, § 415.19; 415.2* X N.Y.
10, § 2.59; N.Y.
Public Health Law § 2801* X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2* X OR Or.
333-018-0127; 333-018-0100* X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.5; 632.6; 632.2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-4-8:14.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-5; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:2.1(a)* X SC S.C.
61-17* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201; Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
386-705; 432-40* X Utah Admin.
432-40* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X Healthcare Worker Type HCW Type State Citation HCW Type All HCWs HCW with occupational exposure HCWs w/direct patient contact AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10); (j)(1)(B)(2); (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X CO 6 Colo.
§ 1011-1:II-10* X 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X DE 16 Del.
Code §§ 3201-5.0; 3201-2.0* X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-19; 31-7-1* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
§§ 209.550;* 216.510* X ME 10-144-264 Me.
§§ 2; 3; 4; 7; 1;* 10-144-110 Me.
22, §§ 802; 1812-A* X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X MA 105 Mass.
150.002; 150.001* X MO Mo.
§§ 198.054; 198.006* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03* X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 803.03* X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2194; 2195; 2191* X N.Y.
10, § 415.19; 415.2* X N.Y.
10, § 2.59; N.Y.
Public Health Law § 2801* X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2* X OR Or.
333-018-0127; 333-018-0100* X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.5; 632.6; 632.2* X RI R.I.
Code 31-4-8:14.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-5; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:2.1(a)* X SC S.C.
61-17* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201; Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X100 UT Utah Admin.
386-705; 432-40* X Utah Admin.
432-40* X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X Requirement Type Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure Surgical mask AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X X X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X X90 Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X X CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10); (j)(1)(B)(2); (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X X CO 6 Colo.
§ 1011-1:II-10* X91 X92 X93 X94 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X X DE 16 Del.
Code §§ 3201-5.0; 3201-2.0* X X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-19; 31-7-1* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X X 902 Ky.
§§ 209.550;* 216.510* X X X ME 10-144-264 Me.
§§ 2; 3; 4; 7; 1;* 10-144-110 Me.
22, §§ 802; 1812-A* X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X X X MA 105 Mass.
150.002; 150.001* X X MO Mo.
§§ 198.054; 198.006* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03* X X X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 803.03* X X X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X X X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2194; 2195; 2191* X96 X97 X98 N.Y.
10, § 415.19; 415.2* X X N.Y.
10, § 2.59; N.Y.
Public Health Law § 2801* X X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X X X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2* X OR Or.
333-018-0127; 333-018-0100* X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.5; 632.6; 632.2* X X X RI R.I.
Code 31-4-8:14.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X X R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-5; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X X X99 R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:2.1(a)* X X X SC S.C.
61-17* X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X X X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201; Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X X X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
386-705; 432-40* X Utah Admin.
432-40* X X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X X X Exemptions Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified88 Medical Religious Philosophical89 AL Ala.
Code § 22-21-10* X X X AR Ark.
§§ 20-10-1304; 1305; 1303* X X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI; 007.15.5-II; 007.15.5-IV; 007.15.5-V; 007.15.5-III* X X CA Cal.
8, §§ 5199 (h)(5)(D)(10); (j)(1)(B)(2); (a)(1)(A)* Appendices C1, C2, E X X CO 6 Colo.
§ 1011-1:II-10* X 6 Colo.
1011-1:II-10.5, 10.11, 10.12; Colo.
§ 25-3-101* X X DE 16 Del.
Code §§ 3201-5.0; 3201-2.0* X GA Ga.
§§ 31-7-19; 31-7-1* X IL Ill.
77, §§ 956.30; 956 App.
A; 956.10* X X X KY Ky.
§§ 209.552; 209.550;* 216.510* X X X 902 Ky.
§§ 209.550;* 216.510* X X ME 10-144-264 Me.
§§ 2; 3; 4; 7; 1;* 10-144-110 Me.
1* X X X Me.
22, §§ 802; 1812-A* X X X MD Md.
Code Ann., Health - General §§ 18-404;* 19-301* X X X MA 105 Mass.
150.002; 150.001* X X X MO Mo.
§§ 198.054; 198.006* X X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 805.19; 805.03* X N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23; 803.03* X N.H.
§§ 151:33;* 151:2* X N.H.
§§ 151:9-b;* 151:2* X X NY N.Y.
Public Health Law §§ 2192; 2194; 2195; 2191* X X X N.Y.
10, § 415.19; 415.2* X N.Y.
10, § 2.59; N.Y.
Public Health Law § 2801* X NC N.C.
§§ 131E-113; 131E-101* X X X OK Okla.
Code § 310:675-9-31; 310:675-1-2* X X OR Or.
333-018-0127; 333-018-0100* X X PA 35 Pa.
Ann §§ 632.3; 632.5; 632.6; 632.2* X X X RI R.I.
Code 31-4-8:14.0; 31-4-8:1.0* X X R.I.
§§ 23-17.19-3; 23-17.19-5; 23-17.19-6; 23-17.19-2* X X X R.I.
Code 31-1-22:3.0; 31-1-22:5.0; 31-1-22:2.1(a)* X X SC S.C.
61-17* X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06; 1200-08-06-.01* X X TX 40 Tex.
Code §§ 19.1601; 19.101* X X 25 Tex.
Code §§ 97.202; 97.201; Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 242.002* X X Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§§ 161.0051;* 242.002(5) X UT Utah Admin.
386-705; 432-40* X Utah Admin.
432-40* X X DC D.C.
22-B, §§ 3222; 3299* X X X ON THIS PAGE Appendix 1 Long-Term Care (LTC) Facility Type Healthcare Worker Type Requirement Type Exemptions RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Appendices - Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Appendix 2 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Patients in State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Appendix 2 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Patients in State Long-Term Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Appendices - Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities AT A GLANCE Vaccine regulations for patients and healthcare workers vary across the nation.
Access charts of comparative information on long-term care facilities' pneumococcal vaccine laws by facility, patient, requirement, and exemption type.
Appendix 1: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type LTC Facility Type State Citation LTC Facility Type All LTC facilities Nursing facility KY KRS § 209.552;209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
2:065 X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2194, § 2195, § 2191* X78 PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.6, § 632.2*, § 632.4 X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-2*, § 23-17.19-6 X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299*, § 298* X Healthcare Worker Type HCW Type State Citation HCW Type All employees 65+ years Staff at risk KY KRS § 209.552;209.550;* 216.510* X 902 Ky.
2:065 X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2194, § 2195, § 2191* X77 PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.6, § 632.2*, § 632.4 X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-2*, § 23-17.19-6 X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299*, § 298* X X Requirement Type Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Administrative offer Administrative ensure KY KRS § 209.552;209.550;* 216.510* X X X 902 Ky.
2:065 X X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2194, § 2195, § 2191* X79 X80 X81 PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.6, § 632.2*, § 632.4 X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-2*, § 23-17.19-6 X85 UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299*, § 298* X X X Exemptions Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified75 Medical Religious Philosophical76 KY KRS § 209.552;209.550;* 216.510* X X X 902 Ky.
2:065 X X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2194, § 2195, § 2191* X82 X83 X84 PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.6, § 632.2*, § 632.4 X X X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-2*, § 23-17.19-6 X X X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299*, § 298* X X X Appendix 2: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Patients in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type Facility Type State Citation LTC Facility Type All LTC facilities Nursing facilities Life care facilities Shelter care Facilities Veterans homes Nursing Homes AL Ala.
Code 1975 §22-21-10 X AR A.C.A.
§20-10-1304, §20-10-1305, §20-10-1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI, 007.15.5-III*, 007.15.5-IV X CA West’s Ann.
Health & Safety Code §120392.4, §120392.6, §120392* X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT C.G.S.A.
§ 19a-522, § 19a-521* X Regs.
State Agencies §19-13-D8t, §19-13-D8t (a)* X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0, 3201-2.0* X FL West’s F.S.A.
§400.141, § 400.021* X GA Ga.
Code Ann., §31-7-2.1, § 31-7-1* X Ga Comp.
111-8-56-.27, 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §11-94.1-42, § 11-94.1-2 X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.1060, 390.330* X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1640; 340.1000* X X 77 Ill.
Code 390.1140 X89 77 Ill.
Code 330.1160 X 210 ILCS 45/2-213, 45/1-113* X 210 ILCS 40/10.1, 210 Ill.
40/2* X IN IC § 16-28-14-3, § 16-28-15-3*, ; 16-28-14-5, 16-28-14-6 § 16-28-14-2* X KY KRS § 209.552, §209.550* X 902 Ky.
2:065 X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
II, § 67 X MD MD Code, Health - General, § 18-404, § 18-404*, § 19-301* X NE Neb.
§ 71-468, § 71-413* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23, 803.03*, N.H.
§ 151:9-b X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:39–19.4, 8:39–1.2* X N.J.A.C.
§8:43–16.2, §8:39-1.2* X N.J.A.C.
5:27A–16.2, 5:27A–1.3* X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2193, § 2195, § 2191* X92 NC N.C.G.S.A.
§ 131E-113, § 131E-101* X OH OAC 3701-17-13, 3701-17-01* X R.C.
§ 3721.041, § 3721.01* X OAC 3701-17-58, OAC 3701-17-01* X OK Okla.
Code 310:675-9-31, Okla.
Code 310:675-1-2* X PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.4, §632.6, § 632.2* X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-4, § 23-17.19-6, § 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0, 31-4-8:59.0* X SD ARSD 44:73:04:10, 44:73:01:01* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06, 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 TAC § 19.1601, § 19.101* X 25 TAC § 97.202, § 97.201, V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 242.002* X V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0051, § 161.0001* X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X VA VA Code Ann.
§ 32.1-127, § 32.1-123* X X 12 VAC 5-371-110, 12 VAC 5-371-10* X X WA West's RCWA 74.42.285, 74.42.010* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299* X Patient Type Patient Type State Citation Patient Type All patients 65+ years Patients at risk AL Ala.
Code 1975 §22-21-10 X AR A.C.A.
§20-10-1304, §20-10-1305, §20-10-1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI, 007.15.5-III*, 007.15.5-IV X CA West’s Ann.
Health & Safety Code §120392.4, §120392.6, §120392* X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT C.G.S.A.
§ 19a-522, § 19a-521* X Regs.
State Agencies §19-13-D8t, §19-13-D8t (a)* X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0, 3201-2.0* X FL West’s F.S.A.
§400.141, § 400.021* X GA Ga.
Code Ann., §31-7-2.1, § 31-7-1* X Ga Comp.
111-8-56-.27, 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §11-94.1-42, § 11-94.1-2 X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.1060, 390.330* X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1640; 340.1000* X 77 Ill.
Code 390.1140 X 77 Ill.
Code 330.1160 X 210 ILCS 45/2-213, 45/1-113* X 210 ILCS 40/10.1, 210 Ill.
40/2* X IN IC § 16-28-14-3, § 16-28-15-3*, ; 16-28-14-5, 16-28-14-6 § 16-28-14-2* X KY KRS § 209.552, §209.550* X 902 Ky.
2:065 X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
II, § 67 X MD MD Code, Health - General, § 18-404, § 18-404*, § 19-301* X NE Neb.
§ 71-468, § 71-413* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23, 803.03*, N.H.
§ 151:9-b X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:39–19.4, 8:39–1.2* X N.J.A.C.
§8:43–16.2, §8:39-1.2* X N.J.A.C.
5:27A–16.2, 5:27A–1.3* X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2193, § 2195, § 2191* X93 NC N.C.G.S.A.
§ 131E-113, § 131E-101* X OH OAC 3701-17-13, 3701-17-01* X R.C.
§ 3721.041, § 3721.01* X OAC 3701-17-58, OAC 3701-17-01* X OK Okla.
Code 310:675-9-31, Okla.
Code 310:675-1-2* X PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.4, §632.6, § 632.2* X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-4, § 23-17.19-6, § 23-17.19-2* X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0, 31-4-8:59.0* X SD ARSD 44:73:04:10, 44:73:01:01* X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06, 1200-08-06-.01* X TX 40 TAC § 19.1601, § 19.101* X X 25 TAC § 97.202, § 97.201, V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 242.002* X X V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0051, § 161.0001* X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X X VA VA Code Ann.
§ 32.1-127, § 32.1-123* X 12 VAC 5-371-110, 12 VAC 5-371-10* X WA West's RCWA 74.42.285, 74.42.010* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299* X X Requirement Type Requirement Type State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Admin.
offer Admin.
ensure AL Ala.
Code 1975 §22-21-10 X X X AR A.C.A.
§20-10-1304, §20-10-1305, §20-10-1303* X Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI, 007.15.5-III*, 007.15.5-IV X X CA West’s Ann.
Health & Safety Code §120392.4, §120392.6, §120392* X X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X CT C.G.S.A.
§ 19a-522, § 19a-521* X Regs.
State Agencies §19-13-D8t, §19-13-D8t (a)* X X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0, 3201-2.0* X X FL West’s F.S.A.
§400.141, § 400.021* X X GA Ga.
Code Ann., §31-7-2.1, § 31-7-1* X Ga Comp.
111-8-56-.27, 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §11-94.1-42, § 11-94.1-2 X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.1060, 390.330* X X X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1640; 340.1000* X X X 77 Ill.
Code 390.1140 X X X 77 Ill.
Code 330.1160 X X X 210 ILCS 45/2-213, 45/1-113* X X X 210 ILCS 40/10.1, 210 Ill.
40/2* X X X IN IC § 16-28-14-3, § 16-28-15-3*, ; 16-28-14-5, 16-28-14-6 § 16-28-14-2* X X X KY KRS § 209.552, §209.550* X X X 902 Ky.
2:065 X X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
II, § 67 X X X MD MD Code, Health - General, § 18-404, § 18-404*, § 19-301* X X X NE Neb.
§ 71-468, § 71-413* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23, 803.03*, N.H.
§ 151:9-b X X X NJ N.J.A.C.
8:39–19.4, 8:39–1.2* X X X N.J.A.C.
§8:43–16.2, §8:39-1.2* X X X N.J.A.C.
5:27A–16.2, 5:27A–1.3* X X X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2193, § 2195, § 2191* X94 X95 X96 NC N.C.G.S.A.
§ 131E-113, § 131E-101* X X X OH OAC 3701-17-13, 3701-17-01* X R.C.
§ 3721.041, § 3721.01* X X OAC 3701-17-58, OAC 3701-17-01* X OK Okla.
Code 310:675-9-31, Okla.
Code 310:675-1-2* X PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.4, §632.6, § 632.2* X X X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-4, § 23-17.19-6, § 23-17.19-2* X X X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0, 31-4-8:59.0* X X X SD ARSD 44:73:04:10, 44:73:01:01* X X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06, 1200-08-06-.01* X X X TX 40 TAC § 19.1601, § 19.101* X X X 25 TAC § 97.202, § 97.201, V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 242.002* X X X V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0051, § 161.0001* X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X X VA VA Code Ann.
§ 32.1-127, § 32.1-123* X X 12 VAC 5-371-110, 12 VAC 5-371-10* X X WA West's RCWA 74.42.285, 74.42.010* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299* X X X Exemptions Exemptions State Citation Exemptions None specified86 Medical Religious Philosophical87 AL Ala.
Code 1975 §22-21-10 X X X AR A.C.A.
§20-10-1304, §20-10-1305, §20-10-1303* X X X88 Ark.
Code 007.15.5-VI, 007.15.5-III*, 007.15.5-IV X X CA West’s Ann.
Health & Safety Code §120392.4, §120392.6, §120392* X X Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 120392.2; 120392.6; 120392* X X CT C.G.S.A.
§ 19a-522, § 19a-521* X X Regs.
State Agencies §19-13-D8t, §19-13-D8t (a)* X X DE 16 Del.
Code 3201-6.0, 3201-2.0* X X FL West’s F.S.A.
§400.141, § 400.021* X X X GA Ga.
Code Ann., §31-7-2.1, § 31-7-1* X Ga Comp.
111-8-56-.27, 111-8-56-.01* X HI Haw.
Rules §11-94.1-42, § 11-94.1-2 X X IL 77 Ill.
Code 300.1060, 390.330* X X 77 Ill.
Code 340.1640; 340.1000* X X 77 Ill.
Code 390.1140 X X 77 Ill.
Code 330.1160 X X 210 ILCS 45/2-213, 45/1-113* X X 210 ILCS 40/10.1, 210 Ill.
40/2* X X IN IC § 16-28-14-3, § 16-28-15-3*, ; 16-28-14-5, 16-28-14-6 § 16-28-14-2* X X X KY KRS § 209.552, §209.550* X X X 902 Ky.
2:065 X X ME 10-144 CMR Ch.
II, § 67 X X MD MD Code, Health - General, § 18-404, § 18-404*, § 19-301* X X X NE Neb.
§ 71-468, § 71-413* X NH N.H.
Code Admin.
He-P 803.23, 803.03*, N.H.
§ 151:9-b X90 X91 NJ N.J.A.C.
8:39–19.4, 8:39–1.2* X X N.J.A.C.
§8:43–16.2, §8:39-1.2* X X N.J.A.C.
5:27A–16.2, 5:27A–1.3* X X NY McKinney's Public Health Law § 2192, § 2193, § 2195, § 2191* X97 X98 X99 NC N.C.G.S.A.
§ 131E-113, § 131E-101* X X X OH OAC 3701-17-13, 3701-17-01* X R.C.
§ 3721.041, § 3721.01* X X OAC 3701-17-58, OAC 3701-17-01* X X OK Okla.
Code 310:675-9-31, Okla.
Code 310:675-1-2* X X PA 35 P.S.
§ 632.3, §632.4, §632.6, § 632.2* X X X RI Gen.
Laws 1956, § 23-17.19-3, § 23-17.19-4, § 23-17.19-6, § 23-17.19-2* X X X R.I.
Code 31-4-8:22.0, 31-4-8:59.0* X X X SD ARSD 44:73:04:10, 44:73:01:01* X X X TN Tenn.
1200-08-06-.06, 1200-08-06-.01* X X TX 40 TAC § 19.1601, § 19.101* X X 25 TAC § 97.202, § 97.201, V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 242.002* X X V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0051, § 161.0001* X UT U.A.C.
R432-40, R432-40-3* X X VA VA Code Ann.
§ 32.1-127, § 32.1-123* X X 12 VAC 5-371-110, 12 VAC 5-371-10* X X WA West's RCWA 74.42.285, 74.42.010* X DC 22-B DCMR § 3222, § 299* X X X ON THIS PAGE Appendix 1: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type Healthcare Worker Type Requirement Type Exemptions Appendix 2: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Patients in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type Patient Type Requirement Type Exemptions RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Appendix 1 - Influenza Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in State Long-Term Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities WHAT TO KNOW Vaccination laws can vary in different states.
Find background and information on the pneumococcal vaccination laws for healthcare workers and patients in long-term care facilities.
CDC recommends that adults aged 50 years or older receive the pneumococcal vaccine.
Purpose This menu is one of a series of menus assessing vaccination requirements for patients and healthcare workers in healthcare facilities.
To reduce the risk of disease as well as disease transmission and outbreaks, healthcare facilities across the country are increasingly requiring healthcare workers and patients to be vaccinated for certain vaccine-preventable diseases.1 In some instances, facilities are establishing these requirements under mandates set forth by state statutes or regulations.
Depending on the vaccine, the legal requirements might apply to either patients, healthcare workers, or both, and can include the following types of provisions: Assessment requirements: The healthcare facility must assess a healthcare worker or patient's vaccination status.2 Administrative requirements for offering vaccination: The healthcare facility must offer a vaccination to a healthcare worker or patient.3 Administrative requirements for ensuring vaccination: The healthcare facility must require a healthcare worker or patient to demonstrate proof of vaccination or immunity against a specific vaccine preventable disease.4 Expand All Introduction Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers in Long-Term Care Facilities Long-term care facilities "provide a variety of services, both medical and personal care, to people who are unable to manage independently in the community."19 Examples of long-term care facilities include nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities, among others.20 These laws establish requirements based on the long-term care facility type and the type of vaccination requirements.
In addition, some state laws allow for vaccination exemptions.
Expand All Examples by Long-Term Care Facility Type Examples by Healthcare Worker Type Examples by Requirement Type Examples by Exemption Type Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Patients in Long-Term Care Facilities Twenty-nine states have pneumococcal vaccination laws for patients in long-term care facilities.48 These laws establish requirements based on the long-term care facility and patient category and the type of vaccination requirements.
In addition, state laws sometimes allow for vaccination exemptions.
Expand All Examples by Long-Term Care Facility Type Examples by Patient Type Examples by Requirement Type Examples by Exemption Type Acknowledgments and Disclaimers This document was developed by Alexandra Bhatti, JD, MPH, Cherokee Nation Assurance, LLC; Aila Hoss, JD, former Carter Consulting, Inc.; Dawn Pepin, JD, MPH, Cherokee Nation Assurance, LLC; and Adebola Popoola, MS, MPH, law student at Atlanta's John Marshall Law School and Fall 2016 extern with the Public Health Law Program (PHLP), National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
This document was produced in collaboration with CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
The authors thank Lindsay Culp, JD, MPH, Megan C.
Lindley, MPH, and Matthew Penn, JD, MLIS, for their research and editorial assistance.
For further technical assistance with this inventory, please contact phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
This menu includes states laws collected from WestlawNext during October 19–27, 2016.
Appendices Appendix 1: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers (HCWs) in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type HCW Type Requirement Type Exemptions Appendix 2: Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Patients in Long-Term Care (LTC) Facilities Facility Type Patient Type Requirement Type Exemptions See a combined PDF of these tables.
Published September 11, 2017.
ON THIS PAGE Purpose Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Healthcare Workers in Long-Term Care Facilities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Patients in Long-Term Care Facilities Acknowledgments and Disclaimers Appendices RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Ebola Activities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Appendices - Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Influenza Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Appendices - Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention SEARCH The page you're looking for was not found.
Please try the CDC archives or the A-Z index.
Search CDC.gov Search Contact Us About CDC Policies Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities WHAT TO KNOW Ambulatory care facilities can have requirements for vaccines for patients and healthcare workers that vary across the country.
Find information about the only state—Texas—with a requirement for pneumococcal vaccines for patients.
CDC recommends that adults aged 50 years or older receive the pneumococcal vaccine.
Purpose This menu is one of a series of menus assessing vaccination requirements for patients and healthcare workers in healthcare facilities.
To reduce the risk of disease transmission and outbreaks, healthcare facilities across the country are increasingly requiring healthcare workers to be vaccinated for certain vaccine-preventable diseases.1 In some instances, facilities are establishing these requirements under mandates set forth by state statutes or regulations.
Depending on the vaccine, the legal requirements might apply to patients, healthcare workers, or both and can include the following types of provisions: Assessment requirements: The healthcare facility must assess a healthcare worker or patient's vaccination status.2 Administrative requirements for offering vaccination: The healthcare facility must offer a vaccination to a healthcare worker or patient.3 Administrative requirements for ensuring vaccination: The healthcare facility must require a healthcare worker or patient to demonstrate proof of vaccination or immunity against a specific vaccine preventable disease.4 Expand All Introduction Texas pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facility patients Ambulatory care facilities are healthcare facilities that provide outpatient medical services.
Examples of ambulatory care facilities include birth centers, dialysis facilities, and surgical centers.
Texas is the only state with a law that establishes pneumococcal vaccination requirements for ambulatory care patients, specifically patients in dialysis facilities for end-stage renal disease.
."18 Note that even where not explicitly exempted by law, it is likely that patients with a medically contraindicated condition are not required to be vaccinated.
Acknowledgements and disclaimers This document was developed by Alexandra Bhatti, JD, MPH, contractor, Cherokee Nation Assurance, LLC; Adebola Popoola, MS, MPH, JD candidate 2017, Atlanta's John Marshall Law School, and Fall 2016 Public Health Law Program (PHLP) extern; Aila Hoss, JD, former contractor, Carter Consulting, Inc.; and Dawn Pepin, JD, MPH, contractor, Cherokee Nation Assurance, LLC, with PHLP within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC's) National Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Public Health Infrastructure and Workforce.
This document was produced in collaboration with CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
The authors thank Lindsay Culp, JD, MPH; Megan Lindley, MPH; and Matthew Penn, JD, MLIS, for their research and editorial assistance.
For further technical assistance with this inventory, please contact phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
This menu includes states' laws collected from WestlawNext during October 19–27, 2016.
Facility type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities State Citation Ambulatory Care Facility Type All AC facilities ESRD Facility Ambulatory Care Facility Type TX V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0052, Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 251.001* X 25 TAC § 117.33, 25 TAC § 117.2* X Patient type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities State Citation Patient Type All patients 65+ years of age Patients at risk Patient Type TX V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0052, Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 251.001* X 25 TAC § 117.33, 25 TAC § 117.2* X Requirement type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities State Citation Requirement Type Assessment Administrative offer Administrative ensure Requirement Type TX V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0052, Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 251.001* X X 25 TAC § 117.33, 25 TAC § 117.2* X X Exemptions—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities State Citation Exemptions None specified Medical Religious Philosophical19 Exemptions TX V.T.C.A., Health & Safety Code § 161.0052, Tex.
Health & Safety Code Ann.
§ 251.001* X 25 TAC § 117.33, 25 TAC § 117.2* X See a combined PDF of these tables.
See a PDF of the menu.
Published April 2017 & updated October 2017 Author's note: Updates include the change of Ensure Requirement definition from "requiring a healthcare facility to ensure that a healthcare worker or patient has been vaccinated, unless vaccination is specifically exempted or declined" to "the healthcare facility must require a healthcare worker or patient to demonstrate proof of vaccination or immunity against a specific vaccine preventable disease".
This change did not alter the coding results.
ON THIS PAGE Purpose Texas pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facility patients Acknowledgements and disclaimers Facility type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities Patient type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities Requirement type—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities Exemptions—pneumococcal vaccination laws for ambulatory care facilities RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Homelessness Ebola Activities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities Appendices - Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pneumococcal Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms and Complications How It Spreads Vaccination Disease in Adults VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Guidance Clinical Features Vaccine Recommendations VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Trends Drug Resistance VIEW ALL Related Topics: Pneumonia View All OCTOBER 31, 2024 About Pneumococcal Disease KEY POINTS Pneumococcal disease is a serious bacterial infection caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Anyone can get pneumococcal disease, but certain people are at increased risk.
Keeping up to date with recommended vaccines is the best protection against pneumococcal disease.
What it is Pneumococcal disease is a name for any infection caused by bacteria called Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus.
This image of Streptococcus pneumoniae was computer generated.
pneumoniae bacteria can cause many types of infections, including: Pneumonia (lung infection) Meningitis (infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord) Bacteremia (bloodstream infection) Otitis media (middle ear infection) Sinusitis (sinus infection) Symptoms Symptoms and complications depend on the part of the body that's infected.
KEEP READING: Symptoms and Complications Risk factors Anyone can get pneumococcal disease, but some people are at increased risk.
KEEP READING: Risk Factors How it spreads People spread pneumococcal bacteria to others through direct contact with respiratory secretions, like saliva or mucus.
KEEP READING: Causes and Spread Prevention People can get pneumococcal disease more than once.
Healthcare providers generally don't prescribe antibiotics after exposure to help prevent someone from getting a pneumococcal infection.
However, there are steps people can take to help protect themselves.
Vaccination Vaccination is the best way to prevent pneumococcal disease.
CDC recommends pneumococcal vaccination for All children younger than 5 years old People 5 through 49 years old with certain risk conditions Adults 50 years or older KEEP READING: Pneumococcal Vaccination Testing and diagnosis Serious infections If healthcare providers suspect meningitis or a bloodstream infection, they will collect samples of cerebrospinal fluid or blood.
Cerebrospinal fluid is the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
They then send the samples to a laboratory for testing.
Growing the bacteria in a laboratory helps identify the specific type of bacteria causing the infection.
Laboratories may also use molecular detection methods to test for these bacteria in samples.
Knowing the cause helps healthcare providers choose the right treatment, including which antibiotic will work best.
Healthcare providers can use a urine test to help make a diagnosis of pneumococcal pneumonia in adults.
Mild infections Healthcare providers usually diagnose ear and sinus infections based on a history and physical exam findings that support pneumococcal infection.
Treatment Healthcare providers use antibiotics to treat pneumococcal disease.
However, some pneumococcal bacteria have become resistant to certain antibiotics used to treat these infections.
Antibiotic testing shows which antibiotics will be most successful at treating the infection.
KEEP READING: Antibiotic-resistant S.
pneumoniae Resources and tools Pneumococcal-specific resources Pneumococcal vaccines for children Pneumococcal disease in adults and the vaccines to prevent it General resources Be Antibiotics Aware Meningitis Pneumonia ON THIS PAGE What it is Types Symptoms Risk factors How it spreads Prevention Testing and diagnosis Treatment Resources and tools SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pneumococcal Pneumococcal disease is caused by bacteria that commonly live in the nose and throat and cause both mild (ear infections) and serious infections (pneumonia).
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health SEPTEMBER 10, 2024 Ebola Activities, Updates and State Ebola Protocols WHAT TO KNOW Response to the 2014–2015 Ebola outbreak required an understanding of complex public health issues, including the role of law in controlling the spread of infectious diseases.
The following resources and trainings developed by the Public Health Law Program address potential questions from responders and the public about Ebola-related legal issues.
Ebola Activities and Updates State and Territorial Ebola Screening, Monitoring, and Movement Policy Statements—United States, August 31, 2015 Describes the analysis of state and territorial Ebola screening, monitoring, and movement policies as of August 31, 2015.
Published in MMWR 2015;64:1145–6.
Ebola and the Law: Legal Preparedness for Physicians and Hospitals Describes case law, statutes, and information about CDC guidance for healthcare and public health attorneys to address questions and concerns related to legal preparedness for potential infectious disease outbreaks.
Domestic Legal Preparedness and Response to Ebola Initial cases of Ebola in the US raise varied legal issues.
This article presents perspectives on 1) state and local powers to quarantine and isolate people and 2) hospital preparedness underlying the treatment of Ebola patients.
Published in The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, v.
43, n.s1 (Spring 2015).
© American Society of Law, Medicine & Ethics, Inc.
Ebola Monitoring and Movement Protocols: CDC Recommendations and State Requirements  Gregory Sunshine, JD, public health analyst with Carter Consulting, Inc.
for CDC's Public Health Law Program, describes the role CDC plays in our public health and legal systems and explains how this affected the state Ebola monitoring and movement protocols.
This event was not organized by the TED conferences — this was an independently organized TEDMED event.
Ebola Movement and Monitoring Policies Table Table of state-by state protocols to help law and policy makers prepare and respond to Ebola-related situations.
CDC's Public Health Law Program and Office of the Associate Director for Policy compiled an Interim Table of State Ebola Screening and Monitoring Policies for Asymptomatic Individuals to help law and policy makers prepare for and respond to Ebola-related situations.
Information provided and conclusions reached in this table were based only on publicly available orders, protocol documentation, and press releases.
Download Full File Disclaimer Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
Further Information‎ CDC's Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease) web page contains more information and the most current alerts.
ON THIS PAGE Ebola Activities and Updates Disclaimer RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) Homelessness Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for State Long-Term Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Homelessness as a Public Health Law Issue WHAT TO KNOW Health problems among homeless persons result from various factors, such as barriers to care, lack of access to adequate food and protection, and limited resources and social services.2 Download Full File RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Infectious Disease Laws Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) Ebola Activities Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws for Ambulatory Care Facilities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Ebola Activities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Meningitis SEARCH About Caring for Yourself and Others VIEW ALL ESPAÑOL About Many things can cause the lining of the brain and spinal cord to swell.
Learn More Causes Viral Meningitis Many viruses can cause meningitis.
How they spread and who is at risk varies by virus.
Bacterial Meningitis Many bacteria can cause meningitis.
How they spread and who is at risk varies by bacteria type.
Fungal Meningitis Parasitic Meningitis Amebic Meningitis Healthcare providers Clinical Overview An overview of clinical features, diagnostics, and treatment for fungal meningitis.
Learn More Meningitis Bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi can all cause meningitis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act AT A GLANCE The 1970 federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA) regulates substances with the potential for abuse.
However, it didn't address the unique needs of emergency medical services (EMS) when dispensing controlled substances.
Learn how the 2017 Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) amended the CSA to standardize EMS controlled substance use and improve emergency patient care.
What led to the PPAEMA The federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA),A created in 1970, regulates substances with abuse potential.
However, it failed to address the unique needs of controlled substance use in emergency medical services (EMS) settings.
This resulted in confusion and non-standard practices across states and EMS agencies.
The Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA), passed in 2017,B adds EMS guidance to the CSA to end the confusion, standardize EMS processes, and improve patient care.
Why EMS needed the PPAEMA EMS agencies use controlled substances (e.g., opioids, benzodiazepines) for advanced life support patient care,C often under time-critical circumstances.
However, until 2017, the CSA lacked guidance regarding administration of controlled substances by EMS agencies and EMS personnel.D The lack of direction led to confusion in the EMS field and caused several states to create their own EMS-related regulations.E For example, the CSA required anyone making, distributing, administering, or studying controlled substances to register with the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).F Without guidance specific to EMS, some state governments and EMS agencies interpreted this to mean they could administer controlled substances under the DEA registration of the medical director or hospital overseeing the agency's patient care.G In addition, some states interpreted the CSA to allow controlled substance administration based on standing orders,H which are written protocols pre-approved by a medical director.
This permitted them to administer controlled substances in emergency care without calling a doctor for treatment instruction for each patient.I In 2011, the DEA asserted that the CSA did not allow for the dispensing of controlled substances under a standing order.J Finally, in 2014 the DEA announced its intention to ban the use of standing orders.K This proposed DEA regulation prompted the introduction of the PPAEMA.L What the PPAEMA changed about the CSA The PPAEMA amended the CSA to allow the following EMS practices: DEA registration for EMS agencies EMS agencies are allowed to receive their own DEA registration to administer controlled substances.
Key factors are: EMS agencies that service multiple states must have a DEA registration for each of those states.
Hospital-based EMS agencies may use the hospital's DEA registration and will not need to register with the DEA separately.M Use of standing orders EMS agencies are allowed to "administer controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V outside the physical presence of a medical director or authorizing medical professional."N Key factors are: The EMS agency must be authorized to do so by state law.
The EMS agency must have a standing orderO or verbal orderP from a medical director or an authorizing medical professional.Q Storage of controlled substances EMS agencies may store controlled substances in the agency location registered with the DEA, unregistered locations, and in EMS vehicles used by the agency.
The key requirement is that the United States Attorney General must be notified of all unregistered locations at least 30 days before the controlled substances are initially delivered to those locations.R Restocking EMS vehicles at hospitals Following an emergency response, EMS agencies may restock their EMS vehicles with controlled substances from a hospital without completing CSA order forms.S Maintenance of controlled substance records EMS agencies must follow record requirements stated in the CSA.T The key requirement is that all deliveries of controlled substances must be recorded, and the records must be stored where the controlled substances are received, administered, and discarded.U EMS agency liability EMS agencies, under their medical director's supervision, are now liable for ensuring the proper use, maintenance, reporting, and security of controlled substances used by the agency.V PPAEMA Policy Brief PDF Document‎ Acknowledgments and disclaimers This document was developed by Emily Sargent, CDC Public Health Law Program intern and JD and MPH candidate at the Indiana University Robert H.
McKinney School of Law and the Indiana University Richard M.
Fairbanks School of Public Health, with the assistance of Gregory Sunshine, JD, public health analyst, Cherokee Nation Assurance, and Matthew Penn, JD, MLIS, director, Public Health Law Program (PHLP) within the Public Health Infrastructure Center (PHIC).
For further technical assistance with this inventory, please contact PHLP at phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
PHLP provides technical assistance and public health law resources to advance the use of law as a public health tool.
PHLP cannot provide legal advice on any issue and cannot represent any individual or entity in any matter.
PHLP recommends seeking the advice of an attorney or other qualified professional with questions regarding the application of law to a specific circumstance.
The findings and conclusions in this summary are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
ON THIS PAGE What led to the PPAEMA Why EMS needed the PPAEMA What the PPAEMA changed about the CSA Acknowledgments and disclaimers RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Prescription Drugs Infectious Disease Laws Homelessness Ebola Activities VIEW ALL Public Health Law Homelessness SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health OCTOBER 7, 2024 Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease Laws WHAT TO KNOW In the United States, the management of emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases is controlled by a combination of state and federal laws.
Background Emerging infectious diseases are infections that have increased recently or are threatening to increase in the near future.
These infections could be— Completely new (like Bourbon virus, which was discovered in 2014 in Kansas, or MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) Completely new to an area (like chikungunya in Florida) Reappearing in an area (like dengue in south Florida and Texas) Caused by bacteria that have become resistant to antibiotics, like MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), C.
difficile, or drug-resistant tuberculo Zoonotic infectious diseases are spread from animals to humans by ticks, mosquitoes, fleas, or contact with animals; examples include— Lyme disease (spread by ticks) Salmonella (spread by poultry) Rabies (spread by mammals) Additional information The resources below evaluate and explain selected emerging and zoonotic infectious disease laws: Raw Milk: Map of State Laws Related to the Sale of Unpasteurized Milk | This map shows state laws governing the sale of unpasteurized milk to consumers as of May 2019.
It also shows changes to state laws that expanded or restricted access to unpasteurized milk from 2012 through 2018.
Raw Milk: A Research Anthology of Legal and Public Health Resources | Raw milk, or milk that has not been pasteurized, is a public health concern.
The consumption of raw milk is linked to a significant number of foodborne illnesses and studies have shown that the legal sale of unpasteurized dairy products is associated with a higher incidence of related disease outbreaks.
In recent years, consumer demand has resulted in expanded legal access to raw milk in several states.
This anthology provides resources that describe and discuss some of the legal and public health issues associated with the sale of raw milk.
State Rabies Vaccination Laws for Domestic Dogs, Cats, and Ferrets in the United States | Rabies is a fatal virus that attacks the central nervous system.
It is most commonly transmitted when a rabid animal bites another animal or a person.
Without prophylactic measures, the infection will result in death within days of onset.
This LawAtlas map, created by CDC's Public Health Law Program, includes data on state-level pre-exposure rabies vaccination laws for domestic dogs, cats, and ferrets across the United States.
This dataset relies on external validation for accuracy and understanding of the application of laws and policies.
Some states have used the law as a public health intervention to reduce disease outbreaks associated with animal contact exhibits.
This article summarizes the results of a 50-state legal assessment that collected and analyzed state statutes and regulations requiring hand sanitation stations at animal contact exhibits.
State laws requiring hand sanitation stations at animal contact exhibits.
United States, March-April 2016.
Disease outbreaks at animal contact exhibits can be prevented by handwashing after contact with animals and keeping food and beverage away from exhibits.
This menu assesses and provides examples of state animal contact exhibit hand sanitation laws.
In recent years, salmonellosis outbreaks linked to pet turtles have increased throughout the United States.
This menu addresses state and territorial laws regarding the sale of turtles, as well as other laws that limit turtle use and distribution.
Learn more about emerging and zoonotic diseases by visiting CDC's National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases.
ON THIS PAGE Background Additional information RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Graduated Driver Licensing Prescription Drugs Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) Homelessness VIEW ALL Public Health Law Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Meningitis EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Caring for Yourself and Others VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Related Topics: Meningococcal Disease | Pneumococcal Disease | Fungal Diseases | Parasites View All About Amebic Meningitis For Everyone SEPT.
9, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Amebic meningitis is rare.
The Naegleria fowleri ameba (also called the "brain-eating ameba") lives in warm fresh water and soil around the world.
These infections can be treated with medicines, but most people don't survive.
Take steps to help protect yourself from N.
fowleri infections, such as preventing water from entering their nose.
What it is Primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) is a rare brain infection caused by Naegleria fowleri.
Only a few people are diagnosed with PAM in the United States each year.
fowleri is a free-living ameba.
An ameba is a single-celled living organism that is too small to be seen without a microscope.
KEEP READING About N.
fowleri Infections Symptoms In its early stages, symptoms of PAM are typical meningitis symptoms, including headache, fever, and stiff neck.
After the start of symptoms, the disease progresses rapidly.
When to seek medical care Anyone with symptoms of meningitis should see a healthcare provider right away.
This is especially true if you have been swimming in warm fresh water recently.
A healthcare provider can determine if you have meningitis, what's causing it, and the best treatment.
Complications Death usually occurs within 5 days (range 1 to 18 days) of the start of symptoms.
Only a few people in the United States have survived after becoming infected with N.
KEEP READING Symptoms Exposure risks Sources of infection N.
fowleri lives in warm fresh water and soil around the world.
Infections often happen when it's been hot for long periods, resulting in higher water temperatures and lower water levels.
Risk factors Fresh water exposure Most N.
fowleri infections occur when people swim or submerge their heads in warm fresh water like lakes, ponds, or rivers.
Tap water exposure PAM may also occur when people use contaminated tap water to rinse their sinuses for religious or health reasons.
In very rare instances, people have become infected from recreational water like splash pads and surf parks that didn't have enough chlorine.
Geographic location In the United States, most infections have been linked to swimming in warm, southern states.
However, evidence suggests the range of N.
fowleri is expanding northward as the climate warms.
KEEP READING Causes and Risk How it spreads N.
fowleri infects people by entering the body through the nose, usually while swimming.
The ameba travels up the nose to the brain where it destroys the brain tissue and causes swelling of the brain.
How it doesn't spread People cannot get infected with N.
fowleri from drinking water contaminated with the ameba.
People also don't spread the infection to others.
Reducing risk To help protect yourself against N.
fowleri infection: Hold your nose or wear a nose clip if you're jumping or diving into fresh water.
Always keep your head above water in hot springs.
Don't dig in shallow water because the ameba is more likely to live there.
Use distilled or boiled tap water when rinsing your sinuses or cleansing your nasal passages.
KEEP READING Prevention Testing and diagnosis PAM is difficult to diagnose because of the rarity of the infection and the early symptoms (e.g., fever, headache) are similar to other illnesses.
There are laboratory tests that can detect N.
fowleri in spinal fluid.
KEEP READING Diagnosis Treatment and recovery Several drugs are effective against N.
fowleri in the laboratory.
However, their effectiveness is unclear since almost all infections have been fatal, even when people were treated.
KEEP READING Treatment ON THIS PAGE What it is Symptoms Exposure risks How it spreads Reducing risk Testing and diagnosis Treatment and recovery RELATED PAGES About Bacterial Meningitis Viral Meningitis Fungal Meningitis Parasitic Meningitis VIEW ALL Meningitis Caring for Yourself and Others SOURCES PRINT SHARE Meningitis Bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi can all cause meningitis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Meningitis EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Caring for Yourself and Others VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Related Topics: Meningococcal Disease | Pneumococcal Disease | Fungal Diseases | Parasites View All About Parasitic Meningitis For Everyone SEPT.
9, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Some parasites can cause meningitis or affect the brain or nervous system in other ways.
Meningitis from parasites is less common than viral and bacterial meningitis.
Diagnosis can be hard.
Treatment to reduce the body's reaction to the parasite is important.
Learn what you can do to prevent parasitic meningitis.
What it is Meningitis is an inflammation (swelling) of the protective lining of the brain and spinal cord that can be caused by a parasitic infection.
Meningitis caused by parasites is called EM which is short for either: Eosinophilic meningitis Eosinophilic meningoencephalitis Types The 3 main parasites that cause EM in some infected people are: Angiostrongylus cantonensis (neuroangiostrongyliasis) Baylisascaris procyonis (baylisascariasis; neural larva migrans) Gnathostoma spinigerum (neurognathostomiasis) Symptoms People with parasitic EM who have symptoms can have typical meningitis symptoms.
In some cases, they may also have an eye infection.
People with EM caused by A.
cantonensis often have tingling or painful feelings in their skin.
When to seek emergency care Anyone with symptoms of meningitis should see a healthcare provider right away.
A healthcare provider can determine if you have meningitis, what's causing it, and the best treatment.
Complications These parasites can cause severe complications, such as Loss of coordination and muscle control Weakness/paralysis Coma Permanent disability Death Risk factors Risk factors vary by parasite, but can include age, geographic location, and what you eat.
cantonensis Most of these infections are diagnosed in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands, including in Hawaii.
Infections have been identified in other areas, including Africa, the Caribbean, and the continental United States.
procyonis This parasite infects raccoons throughout the United States, mainly in the Midwest, Northeast, Middle Atlantic, and West Coast.
People in these areas who come in contact with raccoon feces (poop) are at increased risk.
Young children are also at risk due to increased likelihood of putting contaminated fingers, soil, or objects in their mouths.
spinigerum This infection is most commonly diagnosed in Southeast Asia, particularly in Thailand, and Japan.
How it spreads These parasites normally infect animals not people.
People get infected primarily by: Eating infected slugs, snails, or contaminated foods Accidentally eating raccoon feces Typical source of infection A.
cantonensis: Raw or undercooked snails or slugs, contaminated produce B.
procyonis: Environments (such as dirt) contaminated with raccoon feces G.
spinigerum: Raw or undercooked freshwater fish or eels, frogs, poultry, snakes How it doesn't spread Generally, people don't spread parasitic meningitis or the parasites that cause it to other people.
Reducing risk Visit CDC's website for each parasite to learn specifics on how to prevent infection with these and other parasites.
Generally, you can reduce your risk in the following ways: A.
cantonensis: Don’t eat undercooked or raw slugs or snails B.
procyonis: Avoid contact with raccoons and their feces G.
spinigerum: Don’t eat undercooked or raw fish or poultry, especially in Southeast Asia and Japan Testing and diagnosis In addition to laboratory tests for meningitis, healthcare providers look for evidence of parasitic infection.
It's often hard to find these parasites.
The following may be helpful for making a diagnosis: Travel or exposure history Clinical examination Other medical tests, such as brain scans Treatment and recovery Medications such as steroids are often needed to reduce the body's reaction to the parasite.
Treatment with antiparasitic medications isn't needed for every patient.
Pain medication may be used for headaches.
ON THIS PAGE What it is Types Symptoms Risk factors How it spreads Reducing risk Testing and diagnosis Treatment and recovery RELATED PAGES About Bacterial Meningitis Viral Meningitis Fungal Meningitis Amebic Meningitis VIEW ALL Meningitis Amebic Meningitis SOURCES PRINT SHARE Meningitis Bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi can all cause meningitis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health SEPTEMBER 24, 2024 Prescription Drugs AT A GLANCE The Public Health Law Program provides a curated selection of resources tailored for public health practitioners and their legal counsel.
Background State Laws on Prescription Drug Misuse and Abuse The United States is experiencing an unprecedented epidemic of prescription drug overdose deaths.
The primary responsibility to regulate and enforce prescription drug practices falls to states.
State laws are often used to prevent various injuries, with demonstrated benefits.
Yet little information exists about the effectiveness of state statutes or regulations designed to prevent prescription drug abuse and diversion.
In partnership with CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, PHLP created menus summarizing some of the legal strategies states have used to address prescription drug misuse, abuse, and overdose.
Doctor shopping is when a patient visits multiple practitioners to obtain controlled substances without the prescribers' knowledge of the other prescriptions.
Learn more about prescription drug overdose on CDC's Injury Prevention & Control page.
View CQ StateTrack reports on recent opioid legal developments: Federal, state, and territorial bills Federal, state, and territorial regulations Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice.
If you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Mutual Aid Graduated Driver Licensing Infectious Disease Laws Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (PPAEMA) VIEW ALL Public Health Law Infectious Disease Laws SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health OCTOBER 7, 2024 Graduated Driver Licensing AT A GLANCE GDL addresses the high crash risks that new drivers face by allowing them to get their initial driving experience under low-risk conditions through restrictions that are enforceable by law.
Background Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death for teens in the United States (reported in WISQARS).
Per mile driven, teens 16 to 19 are three times more likely than older drivers to be in a fatal crash.
Graduated driver licensing programs (GDL) have consistently proven to be effective at reducing the crash risk for beginning drivers, including teens.
GDL has three stages, supervised learning, intermediate stage with restricted independent driving on high-risk driving conditions, and unrestricted, full driving privileges.
Although GDL programs vary from state to state, they generally include seven main components: Minimum age to obtain a learner permit Mandatory holding period for the learner permit Minimum number of hours of supervised driving during the learner permit stage—both daytime and nighttime Minimum age to obtain an intermediate license Nighttime driving restrictions during the intermediate stage Passenger restrictions during the intermediate stage Minimum age for full licensing Some states have applied additional restrictions on young drivers, including Cell phone bans Texting bans Seat belt requirements Zero tolerance for driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol Stronger penalties for offenses that during the intermediate stage Minimum standards for driver education Teen Driving Risks and GDL Laws GDL is a legal response to an important public health problem—fatal teen crashes.
Nearly 3,000 teens 15–19 years died in motor vehicle crashes in 2010.
Nearly 400,000 were treated in emergency departments for injuries.
Motor vehicle crashes kill more teenagers and account for more than one in three deaths in this age group.
Per mile driven, teen drivers aged 16–19 years are nearly three times more likely to be in a fatal crash than older drivers.
Young people aged 15–24 years represent 14% of the US population but incur approximately 30% of the total costs of motor vehicle injuries (about $26 billion per year), according to the latest available economic data (2006).
Studies show that graduated driver licensing significantly decreases the risk of fatal teen crashes among 16- to 17-year-old drivers.
Research funded by the National Institutes of Health found that the most effective legislation had at least five of the following seven key elements: A minimum age of 16 for a learner's permit A mandatory waiting period of at least six months before a driver can apply for an intermediate license A requirement for 50 to 100 hours of supervised driving before testing for an intermediate license A minimum age of 17 for an intermediate license Restrictions on nighttime driving A limit on the number of teenaged passengers allowed in the car A minimum age of 18 for a full license All 50 states and the District of Columbia have some form of GDL program.
However, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, if every state adopted the strictest limitations related to five components, the nation would reduce the number of crashes each year by more than 9,500 and save more than 500 lives .
As of 2012, best practices for state GDL laws include a minimum learner's permit age of 16 (eight states and DC), minimum intermediate license age of 17 (New Jersey), at least 65 supervised driving hours (Pennsylvania), night driving restrictions beginning at 8 pm while in the intermediate stage (, South Carolina), and no passengers while in the intermediate stage (15 states and DC).
No state requires a teenager to wait until age 18 for an unrestricted driver's license.
Resources Selected Science and Data Resources CDC CDC Teen Driving Data and Statistics - Data and statistics about teen driving, including information about fatal teen crashes and teen seatbelt use Teen Drivers: Fact Sheet - Referenced web-based resource describing teenage driver risks and strategies to prevent injuries from crashes "Parents Are the Key" - CDC campaign to offer parents tools and proven steps to reduce teen driving injuries and deaths Drivers Aged 16 or 17 Years Involved in Fatal Crashes—United States, 2004–2008 Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, Highway Loss Data Institute Fatality Facts: Teenagers - Archived trend data from 2005–2010 describing characteristics associated with teenage driver and passenger fatalities Licensing Systems for Young Drivers - Summarizes US GDL laws with maps showing minimum ages for unrestricted licenses, nighttime driving, and passenger restrictions National Institutes of Health NIH News: Graduated Drivers Licensing Programs Reduce Fatal Teen Crashes - (November 2011) Reports NIH studies demonstrate nighttime driving and passenger restrictions reduce teenage driving deaths Journal of the American Medical Association Strengthening Driver Licensing Systems for Teenaged Drivers - (2011, McCartt and Teoh) Documents large declines in crash rates for 15-year-olds (69%), 16-year-olds (68%), and 17-year-olds (53%) as states adopted graduated driver licensing statutes.
In states with graduated driver licensing, overall crash rates declined by 20–40%.
However, police-reported crash rates for 16- to 19-year-old drivers are almost four times higher than those of older drivers.
Graduated Driver Licensing and Fatal Crashes Involving 16- to 19-Year-Old Drivers - (2011, Masten, Foss & Marshall) A study that found similar results for younger beginning drivers, but for drivers 18 and 19 years old did not demonstrate like benefits.
The authors concluded that GDL programs reduce 16-year-old drivers' fatal crash rates by almost 20%.
Based on the existing statutes at the time of the study, the greatest benefit appeared to be in programs that included Minimum age requirements to obtain learner's permit A waiting period before allowing teen drivers to enter the intermediate license stage Nighttime driving restrictions Passenger restrictions A minimum number of supervised driving hours National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) FARS System - The nation's database on motor vehicle crashes that result in fatalities Governors Highway Safety Association Young Drivers and Traffic Fatalities: 20 Years of Progress on the Road to Zero Indicates that Young drivers are nearly four times more likely to be involved in a fatal traffic crash than their older counterparts, but a GHSA report confirms that crash and fatality rates for drivers under 21 have improved drastically over the past two decades – more so than for other drivers.
The report includes an analysis of Fatality Analysis Reporting System data for 2002-2021, identifies the policies and programs responsible for the gains in teen driver safety, and makes recommendations for building upon that success.
Policy Resources Insurance Institute for Highway Safety Young Driver Licensing Systems in the US - Describes young driver license systems in the US and links to descriptions for each stage of the GDL Q&A: Teenagers: Graduated Driver Licensing - A referenced resource on GDL policy in the US GDL Calculator - Uses research results to show how a state may change its current statute to improve fatal crash rates among young drivers.
The calculator demonstrates that if every state adopted five of the seven GDL provisions into law, the result would be an additional 500 lives saved and more than 9,500 crashes prevented each year.
1515: Safe Teen and Novice Driver Uniform Protection Act of 2011 - US House of Representatives bill, similar to the STANDUP Act Governor's Highway Safety Association Graduated Driver Licensing Laws - Chart showing selected provisions for each state, including Minimum age to obtain a learner's permit Minimum duration to maintain the learner's permit Required number of supervised driving hours, including night hours, while driving with a learner's permit Minimum age to obtain an intermediate stage license Hours of the nighttime driving restriction Passenger restrictions Minimum age to acquire full driving privileges Interactive US Map - Summarizes each state's highway safety laws Insurance Institute for Highway Safety State GDL Provisions (May 2012) - Contains US maps providing state specific data for GDL provisions including Minimum age for unsupervised driving Night restriction start times Passenger restrictions Selected State GDL Laws States vary dramatically in the provisions that make up GDL laws.
The following links are statutory language from selected states that have provisions shown by the science and supported by policy makers to have a demonstrated positive effect on reducing the number of deaths associated with teenage beginning drivers.
Licensing Age - Only New Jersey (see 39:3-13.4 Probationary driver's license) has a minimum licensing age of 17 to obtain a driver's license.
Other states require only a mandatory waiting period to receive an intermediate license, thus allowing some drivers to receive an intermediate license as early as 16 years old (see Maine's six month provision (Title 29, Chapter 11, Subchapter 2, Section 1304 1A and 1H) ).
Supervised Driving - Pennsylvania sets the strictest standard for supervised driving with a learner's permit, 65 practice hours , 10 of which must be at night and 5 of which must be in inclement weather (Section 1505(e)).
Most states require between 40–50 hours of supervised instruction, but four states (including Arkansas) do not require any supervised driving hours during the learner's permit period.
Nighttime Driving - Idaho has the strictest nighttime driving restriction, which restricts teenage drivers with an intermediate license to daylight hours only.
Passengers - Fifteen states and the District of Columbia do not allow teenage passengers in the car until a teenage driver has obtained an unrestricted license.
Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
Indicates that the number of 16- and 17-year-old driver deaths in passenger vehicles has increased by 19% in the first six months of 2012 compared to in the first six months of 2011.
If the trend continues, it will mark the first reversal of long-standing yearly declines in teen driver deaths since GDL laws have been implemented.
Policy ResourcesInsurance Institute for Highway SafetyYoung Driver Licensing Systems in the US - Describes young driver license systems in the US and links to descriptions for each stage of the GDLQ&A: Teenagers: Graduated Driver Licensing - A referenced resource on GDL policy in the USGDL Calculator - Uses research results to show how a state may change its current statute to improve fatal crash rates among young drivers.
The calculator demonstrates that if every state adopted five of the seven GDL provisions into law, the result would be an additional 500 lives saved and more than 9,500 crashes prevented each year.
1515: Safe Teen and Novice Driver Uniform Protection Act of 2011 - US House of Representatives bill, similar to the STANDUP ActGovernor's Highway Safety AssociationGraduated Driver Licensing Laws - Chart showing selected provisions for each state, including Minimum age to obtain a learner's permit Minimum duration to maintain the learner's permit Required number of supervised driving hours, including night hours, while driving with a learner's permit Minimum age to obtain an intermediate stage license Hours of the nighttime driving restriction Passenger restrictions Minimum age to acquire full driving privileges Interactive US Map - Summarizes each state's highway safety lawsInsurance Institute for Highway SafetyState GDL Provisions (May 2012) - Contains US maps providing state specific data for GDL provisions including Minimum age for unsupervised driving Night restriction start times Passenger restrictions Selected State GDL LawsStates vary dramatically in the provisions that make up GDL laws.
The following links are statutory language from selected states that have provisions shown by the science and supported by policy makers to have a demonstrated positive effect on reducing the number of deaths associated with teenage beginning drivers.Licensing Age - Only New Jersey (see 39:3-13.4 Probationary driver's license) has a minimum licensing age of 17 to obtain a driver's license.
Most states require between 40–50 hours of supervised instruction, but four states (including Arkansas) do not require any supervised driving hours during the learner's permit period.Nighttime Driving - Idaho has the strictest nighttime driving restriction, which restricts teenage drivers with an intermediate license to daylight hours only.
Passengers - Fifteen states and the District of Columbia do not allow teenage passengers in the car until a teenage driver has obtained an unrestricted license.CalloutSelect Callout TypeDisclaimer:1160Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.6245 ON THIS PAGE Background Resources RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Multisector Coordination Mutual Aid Prescription Drugs Infectious Disease Laws VIEW ALL Public Health Law Prescription Drugs SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Causes Prevention Program VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Features Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VIEW ALL Public Health Guidance VIEW ALL Related Topics: Acanthamoeba Infections View All How to Prevent Naegleria fowleri Infection JULY 16, 2025 KEY POINTS Naegleria fowleri can cause a rare but almost always fatal infection if the ameba goes up the nose and to the brain.
These infections have occurred when people go swimming in warm fresh water or rinse their sinuses or nasal passages with water containing Naegleria fowleri.
There are steps you can take to help prevent a Naegleria fowleri infection.
Overview If Naegleria fowleri goes up the nose and to the brain, the ameba can cause an infection called primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM).
These brain infections are rare―typically fewer than 10 occur in the United States every year.
However, only a few people have ever survived PAM.
Most Naegleria fowleri infections occur when people swim, dive, or do other activities in warm fresh water.
If you're going to a lake, hot spring, or other body of warm fresh water, take steps to reduce your risk of infection.
KEEP READING Preventing Naegleria fowleri Infection When Swimming Naegleria fowleri infections can also happen when people use tap or faucet water that contains the ameba for sinus or nasal rinsing.
If you rinse your sinuses or cleanse your nasal passages, make sure the water you use is safe.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Raccoon Roundworm (Baylisascaris Infection) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms How It Spreads Diagnosis Preventing VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Treatment VIEW ALL View All NOVEMBER 5, 2024 Preventing Raccoon Roundworm KEY POINTS Raccoon roundworm can be prevented by avoiding contact with raccoons or their feces.
Wash your hands after working or playing outdoors.
Take steps to discourage raccoons from living in or around your home.
Exposure Do not keep, feed, or adopt wild animals, including raccoons, as pets.
Infection rarely causes symptoms in raccoons, so you cannot tell if a raccoon is infected by observing its behavior.
Roundworm eggs passed in the feces of infected raccoons are not visible to the naked eye.
Eggs can only be seen using a microscope.
Prevention tips You may discourage raccoons from living in and around your home or parks by taking the following steps: Prevent access to food Keep trash containers tightly closed Close off access to attics and basements Keep sandboxes covered when not in use (raccoons may use sandboxes as a latrine) Remove fish ponds — they eat the fish and drink the water Eliminate water sources Remove bird feeders Clear brush so raccoons are not likely to make a den on your property Stay away from areas and materials that might be contaminated by raccoon feces.
Raccoons typically defecate at the base of or in raised forks of trees, or on raised horizontal surfaces such as fallen logs, stumps, or large rocks.
Raccoon feces can also be found on woodpiles, decks, rooftops, and in attics, garages, and haylofts.
Feces usually are dark and tubular, have a pungent odor (usually worse than dog or cat feces), and often contain undigested seeds or other food items.
Raccoons will sometimes use a sandbox as a latrine.
Removing raccoon latrines If you have found a raccoon latrine near your home, cleaning the area may prevent possible infection.
Newly deposited eggs take at least 2 – 4 weeks to become infective.
Prompt removal and destruction of raccoon feces will reduce risk for exposure and possible infection.
If you choose to clean the site yourself, care should be taken to avoid contaminating hands and clothes.
Wear disposable gloves to help prevent cross contamination.
Wear a N95-rated respirator if working in a confined space to prevent accidental ingestion of eggs or other harmful materials.
Avoid stirring up dust and debris—you can lightly mist the latrine area with water from a spray bottle to reduce the amount of dust.
Wear rubber boots that can be scrubbed or cover your shoes with disposable booties that can be thrown away, so that you do not bring eggs into your household.
Feces and material contaminated with raccoon feces should be removed and burned, buried, or sent to a landfill.
Most chemicals do not kill roundworm eggs; however, heat kills the eggs instantly.
Treat feces-soiled decks, patios, and other surfaces with boiling water or a propane torch (please contact your local fire department for regulations and safety practices).
To help further reduce the risk of possible infection, wash your hands well with soap and warm running water.
Clean/launder your clothes thoroughly with hot water and detergent.
If you are cleaning an indoor raccoon latrine and are not able to use a propane torch, use a damp (but not wet) sponge to wipe the area with hot soapy water.
Rinse your sponge frequently.
After you are finished, flush dirty water down the toilet.
Place the sponge in a plastic bag and put the plastic bag in the garbage.
Contact your local animal control office for additional assistance.
Animal impact Dogs Dogs may be infected with adult B.
procyonis roundworms but may not show symptoms.
Have all pets de-wormed under a veterinarian's supervision and take precautions to avoid contact with their feces.
Exotic pets Raccoons and dogs are not the only hosts of Baylisascaris.
procyonis infection has also been documented in kinkajous.
Other animals such as coatis may be susceptible.
When wild animals are kept as pets, there can be a risk of disease transmission to humans.
ON THIS PAGE Exposure Prevention tips Removing raccoon latrines Animal impact SOURCES PRINT SHARE Raccoon Roundworm (Baylisascaris Infection) Baylisascaris infection is caused by a roundworm found in raccoons.
It is also called Raccoon Roundworm and can infect people, dogs, and other animals.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Mutual Aid AT A GLANCE Mutual aid agreements can be effective tools to assist U.S.
state and local governments, tribes, Canadian provinces, First Nations, and Mexican states in sharing information, data, supplies, resources, equipment, or personnel to protect the public’s health.
Download Full File Disclaimer Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Legal Foundations Multisector Coordination Graduated Driver Licensing Prescription Drugs VIEW ALL Public Health Law Graduated Driver Licensing SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All JULY 10, 2024 Multisector Coordination WHAT TO KNOW Law enforcement agencies, the corrections system, the judiciary, and many other sectors have re-examined their own policies and procedures, identified potential gaps, and undertaken steps to strengthen preparedness for future emergencies.
While these efforts are essential, recent disasters have shown that no sector or jurisdiction is likely to face a major disaster or its aftermath alone.
Tools To enhance coordination of preparedness across sectors, the CDC Public Health Law Program, in partnership with the U.S.
Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Assistance, convened the Workgroup on Public Health and Law Enforcement Emergency Preparedness in 2007.
The workgroup developed the following two tools to bolster multisector coordination: Model Memorandum of Understanding Public Health/Law Enforcement Investigations Designed as a starting point, setting forth the major gaps and problems in cross-sectoral and cross-jurisdictional emergency preparedness planning, as well as some key opportunities for addressing them.
Please contact state and local public health officials or FBI Weapons of Mass Destruction coordinators in FBI field offices for a copy of the MOU or send an e-mail request to phlawprogram@cdc.gov.
Download Full File (2 MB) Disclaimer Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Drivers Aged 16 or 17 Years Involved in Fatal Crashes --- United States, 2004--2008 Weekly October 22, 2010 / 59(41);1329-1334 Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among teens in the United States, accounting for approximately one third of deaths in this age group (1).
Crash risk is highest during the first years of independent driving (2).
To characterize trends in fatal crashes involving drivers aged 16 or 17 years, CDC analyzed data from the Fatality Analysis Report System (FARS) for 2004--2008.
This report summarizes the results of that analysis, which indicated that, during 2004--2008, a total of 9,644 passenger vehicle drivers aged 16 or 17 years were involved in fatal crashes.
During that period, the annual population-based rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes declined 38%, from 27.1 per 100,000 population in 2004 to 16.7 in 2008.
By state, 5-year annualized rates for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes ranged from 9.7 per 100,000 population in New Jersey and New York to 59.6 in Wyoming.
To further reduce fatal crashes involving young drivers, states should periodically reexamine and update graduated driver licensing (GDL) programs, and communities should vigorously enforce laws on minimum legal drinking age, blood alcohol concentration (BAC), and safety belt use, all of which can reduce the number of fatal crashes among young drivers.
FARS is a census of fatal traffic crashes in the United States maintained by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
For this study, records of drivers involved in fatal crashes during 2004--2008 were examined.
A fatal crash was defined as one in which at least one vehicle occupant or nonoccupant (e.g., bicyclist or pedestrian) involved in the crash died within 30 days of the crash.
Analyses were restricted to drivers of passenger vehicles (i.e., automobiles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, and vans).
Of the 10,048 drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes, 9,644 (96%) drove passenger vehicles.
census population estimates for persons aged 16 or 17 years and persons aged ≥18 years were used to calculate rates of fatal crash involvement.
To examine state-specific rates for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes, 2004--2008 crash data and census data were aggregated separately, and an annualized rate was calculated for each state.
The annualized rates then were compared with 2008 state-specific fatality rates for all crashes involving passenger vehicles.
During 2004--2008, a total of 9,644 drivers aged 16 or 17 years were involved in 9,494 fatal crashes.
A total of 4,705 (50%) crashes involved one vehicle; 3,976 (42%) involved two vehicles; and 813 (8%) involved three or more vehicles.
A total of 8,274 (87%) crashes resulted in one fatality, 986 (10%) resulted in two fatalities, and 234 (3%) resulted in three or more fatalities.
Another 728 (6.7%) persons were other road users (e.g., bicyclists or pedestrians).
A total of 6,280 (65%) drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes were male; 3,429 (36%) of drivers in the age group were reported speeding at the time of the crash.
Of the 4,459 (46%) whose BAC levels were known, 3,512 (79%) had zero BAC.
Of the 947 drivers with a positive BAC, levels ranged from 0.01 g/dL to 0.55 g/dL, with a median of 0.11 g/dL; 678 (72%) of these drivers had a BAC of ≥0.08 g/dL, above the legal limit for drivers aged ≥21 years.
From 2004 to 2008, the annual number of drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes decreased 36%, from 2,230 to 1,437 (Table 1).
Continuing a general decline that began in 1996 (Figure), the population-based rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes decreased 38%, from 27.1 per 100,000 population in 2004 to 16.7 in 2008 (Table 1).
During 2004--2008, year-to-year decreases in the rate ranged from 5% from 2005 to 2006 to 23% from 2007 to 2008.
In comparison, the rate for drivers aged ≥18 years involved in fatal crashes declined 20%, from 20.5 per 100,000 population in 2004 to 16.3 per 100,000 in 2008.
Among states, the 5-year annualized rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes ranged from 9.7 per 100,000 population in New York and New Jersey to 59.6 in Wyoming (Table 2).
These state-specific rates correlated strongly with 2008 state-specific fatality rates from all crashes involving passenger vehicles (Pearson correlation coefficient = 0.8) (Table 2).
Reported by Shults RA, PhD, Ali B, MPH, Div of Unintentional Injury Prevention, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, CDC.
Editorial Note The results described in this report indicate that the population-based rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes continued to decline substantially during 2004--2008, most notably from 2007 to 2008, when the rate decreased 23%.
Among drivers aged ≥18 years, the rate decreased 12% from 2007 to 2008.
Reasons for the decreases in rates of involvement in fatal crashes are unknown but they have been attributed, in part, to decreases in the number of vehicle miles traveled (particularly discretionary travel) because of rising gasoline prices and adverse economic conditions (3).
Economic downturns are believed to produce greater cutbacks in travel for drivers with limited funds, including teens (3).
Additionally, some teens might delay obtaining drivers licenses for financial reasons during adverse economic conditions, reducing the number of overall miles driven by teens.
The decline during 2004--2008 in the rate of young drivers involved in fatal crashes extends a long-term downward trend (2).
From 1996 to 2008, the rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes fell approximately 50%, from 36.0 per 100,000 population (2) to 16.7.
GDL programs are widely credited with contributing to this decline.
A recent review of GDL evaluations concluded that the programs have reduced young driver crash risk by approximately 20% to 40% (4).
First implemented in the United States in 1996 in Florida, GDL programs now operate in 49 states and the District of Columbia.* The programs initially limit teens' independent driving under various high-risk conditions, such as nighttime driving or carrying teen passengers.
GDL programs include a nighttime driving restriction, and 42 states and the District of Columbia include a teen passenger restriction.
CDC recommends that families of newly licensed teen drivers actively enforce GDL requirements with a parent-teen driving contract (5).
Other factors that likely contributed to the long-term decline in fatal crashes involving young drivers include improvements in vehicle and road safety, increased seat belt use, and reductions in driving after drinking alcohol (6).
State-specific rates of drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes varied by sixfold.
By state, the strong correlation between rates for young drivers involved in fatal crashes and fatality rates from all crashes involving passenger vehicles suggests that state-specific differences in the driving environment (e.g., degree of urbanization, speed limits, amounts and types of travel, weather, state traffic laws, rates of licensure, and emergency-care capabilities) have similar effects on fatal crash risk for drivers of all ages.† The relatively low rates of crash involvement for young drivers in New Jersey and New York might be related to licensing policies.
New Jersey is the only state with a minimum licensing age of 17 years; in New York City, the minimum age is 18 years, except for persons who take a state-approved driver education course and meet other requirements, who may be licensed at aged 17 years.
The findings in this report are subject to at least four limitations.
First, population-based crash rates do not account for driving exposure.
This limitation is of particular concern because the age at which teens may begin to drive independently varies by state from 14 years to 17 years; therefore, the proportion of persons aged 16 or 17 years who are eligible to drive without adult supervision varies widely by state.
Ideally, studies of young driver crash risk would include measures such as the number of miles driven or number of licensed teen drivers.
Reliable data on these driving exposure measures are not readily available for research (2,7).
To help facilitate collection of data on driving exposure, the Transportation Research Board's Subcommittee on Young Drivers recently identified documenting the amount and type of driving done by teens as one of five high-priority research needs (7).
Second, the two variables used in calculating the Pearson correlation coefficient were not completely independent because fatalities resulting from crashes involving drivers aged 16 or 17 years were included in the 2008 state-specific fatality rates for all crashes involving passenger vehicles.
The effect is small, however, because only 5% of passenger vehicle fatalities in 2008 involved a driver aged 16 or 17 years.
Finally, caution should be used in interpreting the differences in fatal crash involvement rates among states because many factors that vary by state contribute to crash risk.
GDL programs vary in makeup; the more comprehensive programs are associated with larger crash reductions (8).
To further reduce crashes among young drivers, states should ensure that their GDL programs include all of the components with demonstrated effectiveness, including extended learner periods, nighttime driving restrictions, and passenger restrictions (9).
As GDL programs evolve and additional evaluation results become available, states should reexamine their programs and consider implementing additional components that have been proven effective.
Additionally, communities should vigorously enforce existing laws known to be effective among young drivers and the general driving population, including laws on minimum legal drinking age, BAC, and safety belt use.
Information regarding the effectiveness of these strategies is available at 
Acknowledgments The findings in this report are based, in part, on the contributions of T Lindsey, National Highway Traffic Safety Admin, District of Columbia, and AF Williams, PhD.
References CDC.
WISQARS (Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed October 18, 2010 Ferguson SA, Teoh ER, McCartt AT.
Progress in teenage crash risk during the last decade.
J Safety Res 2007;38:137--45.
Is the U.S.
on the path to the lowest motor vehicle fatalities in a decade?
Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute; 2008.
Available at  .
Accessed October 18, 2010.
Graduated driver licensing: review of evaluation results since 2002.
J Safety Res 2007;38:166--75.
Parents Are the Key Campaign.
US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed October 18, 2010.
Achievements in public health, 1900--1999 motor-vehicle safety: a 20th century public health achievement.
MMWR 1999;48:369--74.
Transportation Research Board Subcommittee on Young Drivers.
Future directions for research on motor vehicle crashes and injuries involving teenage drivers.
Washington, DC: Transportation Research Board; 2009.
Available at  .
Accessed October 18, 2010.
McCartt AT, Teoh ER, Fields M, Braitman KA, Hellinga LA.
Graduated licensing laws and fatal crashes of teenage drivers: a national study.
Traffic Inj Prev 2010;11:240--8.
Williams AF.
Contribution of the components of graduated driver licensing to crash reduction.
J Safety Res 2007;38:177--84.
* Additional information available at 
† Additional information available at 
What is already known on this topic?
Teen drivers have the highest motor vehicle crash risk of any age group, and crashes are the leading cause of death among teens in the United States.
What is added by this report?
The national rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes declined 38% from 2004 to 2008 to 16.7 per 100,000 population; however, rates among states ranged from 9.7 to 59.6.
What are the implications for public health practice?
To further reduce crashes among young drivers, states should ensure that their graduated driver licensing programs include all effective measures, including extended learner periods, nighttime driving restrictions, and passenger restrictions.
Number and annual rate* of drivers† involved in fatal crashes, by age group --- Fatality Analysis Reporting System, United States, 2004--2008 Age group (yrs) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 to 2008 Total No.
change (%) Rate change (%) 16 or 17 9,644 2,230 27.1 2,054 24.5 2,020 23.4 1,903 21.8 1,437 16.7 -36 -38 ≥18 214,054 45,145 20.5 45,360 20.4 43,963 19.6 42,143 18.5 37,443 16.3 -18 -20 * Per 100,000 population in age group.
† Of passenger vehicles (i.e., automobiles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, and vans).
Annual rate* for drivers† aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes, by age group --- Fatality Analysis Reporting System, United States, 1990--2008 * Per 100,000 population in age group.
† Of passenger vehicles (i.e., automobiles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, and vans).
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the annual rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes, by age group in the United States from 1990-2008.
Continuing a general decline that began in 1996, the population-based rate for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes decreased 38%, from 27.1 per100,000 population in 2004 to 16.7 in 2008.
Number and 5-year annualized rate* for drivers† aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes and 2008 fatality rate from all crashes involving passenger vehicles, by state§ --- Fatality Analysis Reporting System, United States, 2004--2008 State 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 5-year annualized rate, 2004--2008¶ Fatality rate from all crashes involving passenger vehicles, 2008¶ Alabama 80 63 71 53 45 48.0 18.7 Alaska 4 1 5 10 4 21.4 7.4 Arizona 58 40 47 33 35 24.5 11.9 Arkansas 41 35 35 28 24 40.9 18.2 California 145 143 136 130 67 11.6 8.0 Colorado 50 33 29 30 21 25.0 9.5 Connecticut 19 13 12 12 12 13.8 6.3 Delaware 16 8 6 8 4 35.8 12.4 District of Columbia 3 0 0 0 0 ---** 4.6 Florida 140 149 137 138 110 28.8 14.1 Georgia 79 85 83 83 66 29.2 13.6 Hawaii 9 2 3 1 2 --- 6.8 Idaho 13 21 15 15 9 32.7 13.1 Illinois 78 69 86 80 31 18.9 7.1 Indiana 73 57 59 49 47 31.6 11.3 Iowa 29 26 27 33 16 30.9 11.9 Kansas 26 29 25 30 19 31.9 11.9 Kentucky 50 50 52 37 31 38.2 16.7 Louisiana 59 27 34 37 30 28.4 18.7 Maine 16 6 18 10 6 30.1 9.9 Maryland 39 38 31 29 31 20.7 9.5 Massachusetts 25 23 27 22 13 12.6 4.9 Michigan 76 58 50 63 47 19.6 8.8 Minnesota 47 43 42 29 22 24.4 7.4 Mississippi 47 55 41 40 26 47.6 25.0 Missouri 80 83 64 57 48 39.4 14.6 Montana 6 6 6 4 13 25.0 19.7 Nebraska 18 20 21 28 18 40.8 10.4 Nevada 15 19 16 13 11 22.1 10.7 New Hampshire 17 4 6 12 4 22.6 9.2 New Jersey 12 33 33 18 21 9.7 6.1 New Mexico 19 19 18 12 17 29.2 15.6 New York 65 58 53 55 33 9.7 5.3 North Carolina 89 79 72 86 57 31.9 14.0 North Dakota 3 2 13 10 6 37.7 13.4 Ohio 73 73 73 61 62 20.7 8.9 Oklahoma 42 42 39 37 31 37.4 18.2 Oregon 18 19 15 18 5 14.7 9.5 Pennsylvania 78 71 60 82 55 19.8 9.9 Rhode Island 6 6 5 6 3 18.0 5.4 South Carolina 41 36 51 39 30 32.0 18.4 South Dakota 6 8 10 8 12 37.3 13.1 Tennessee 67 69 61 56 42 35.4 15.0 Texas 172 161 145 149 121 21.6 11.9 Utah 22 17 21 15 9 20.2 8.5 Vermont 6 3 6 4 4 25.4 11.1 Virginia 57 48 49 42 48 23.5 9.6 Washington 20 25 38 28 19 14.4 6.8 West Virginia 13 14 15 12 9 27.1 18.5 Wisconsin 56 55 50 39 34 29.0 9.3 Wyoming 7 10 9 12 7 59.6 24.8 * Per 100,000 population in age group.
† Of passenger vehicles (i.e., automobiles, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, and vans).
§ Includes District of Columbia.
¶ Pearson correlation coefficient = 0.8.
Compares state-level annualized rates for drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes during 2004--2008 with 2008 fatality rates from all crashes involving passenger vehicles.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Causes Prevention Program VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Features Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VIEW ALL Public Health Guidance VIEW ALL Related Topics: Acanthamoeba Infections View All Preventing Brain Infection When Swimming For Everyone JULY 16, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Naegleria fowleri amebas live in warm fresh water like lakes, ponds, and hot springs.
Naegleria fowleri can cause a rare but deadly infection when the ameba travels up the nose and to the brain.
Take steps when swimming or doing other activities in warm fresh water to reduce your risk of Naegleria fowleri infection.
Overview You should assume that Naegleria fowleri is present in all lakes, ponds, rivers, hot springs, and other fresh water.
When the ameba goes up the nose and to the brain, it can cause an infection called primary amebic meningoencephalitis, or PAM, which is nearly always fatal.
You can't get PAM by: Swimming in a properly maintained and disinfected pool, surf park, or other recreational water venue Swallowing water containing Naegleria fowleri Note: No one in the United States has ever gotten PAM from swimming in salt water.
Prevention tips The risk of a Naegleria fowleri infection is very low.
There are typically fewer than 10 PAM deaths a year in the United States, compared to thousands of drowning deaths.
One sure way to prevent PAM is to stay out of warm lakes, ponds, and other fresh water.
If you swim, wakeboard, or participate in other water activities, you can take steps to reduce your risk: Avoid activities during warmer months when water temperatures rise and water levels go down.
Naegleria fowleri amebas thrive in these conditions.
Hold your nose shut or use a nose clip if you jump or dive into the water.
Always keep your head above water in hot springs and other naturally hot (geothermal) water.
Avoid digging in, or stirring up, sediment in shallow fresh water.
Naegleria fowleri amebas are more likely to live in sediment at the bottom of lakes, ponds, and rivers.
Posting signs is not usually an effective way to let people know when Naegleria fowleri has been identified in a lake or other body of water.
That's because: The location and number of amebas can vary over time within the same body of water.
There are no standardized testing methods to detect and determine the number of Naegleria fowleri in the water.
People might mistakenly think that water in areas without signs is free of Naegleria fowleri.
Naegleria fowleri in your area If a Naegleria fowleri infection has been identified in your area, be sure to follow the prevention tips.
Environmental testing and signage are not recommended because: The location and number of amebas can vary over time within the same body of water.
There are no standardized testing methods to detect and determine the number of Naegleria fowleri in the water.
People might mistakenly think that water without signs is free of Naegleria fowleri.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Prevention tips Naegleria fowleri in your area RELATED PAGES Prevention How to Safely Rinse Sinuses Causes Program About VIEW ALL Naegleria fowleri Infection Program SOURCES PRINT SHARE Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Raccoon Roundworm (Baylisascaris Infection) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms How It Spreads Diagnosis Preventing VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Clinical Treatment VIEW ALL View All PARASITES Health Care Providers NOVEMBER 5, 2024 Clinical Treatment of Raccoon Roundworm AT A GLANCE The preferred medication to treat baylisascariasis is albendazole.
If albendazole is not immediately available, mebendazole or ivermectin may be used in the interim.
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after ingestion of infectious material, ideally within three days.
Treatment options In cases where suspicion of exposure is high, immediate treatment with albendazole (25 – 50 mg/kg per day by mouth for 10 – 20 days) may be appropriate.
Treatment is successful when administered soon after exposure to abort the migration of larvae.
Indications for immediate treatment may include known oral exposure to raccoon feces, presence of Baylisascaris eggs in the feces of the implicated animal or animals, and suspected oral exposure to raccoon feces in an area where the prevalence of raccoon infection is known to be high.
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after ingestion of infectious material, ideally within three days.
If albendazole is not immediately available, mebendazole or ivermectin may be used in the interim.
For clinical baylisascariasis, treatment with albendazole, at the dose given above, with concurrent corticosteroids to help reduce the inflammatory reaction is indicated to attempt to control the disease.
*Oral albendazole, oral mebendazole, and oral ivermectin are available for human use in the United States.
Care precautions Expand All Albendazole Mebendazole Ivermectin RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Raccoon Roundworm (Baylisascaris Infection) Clinical Overview SOURCES PRINT SHARE Raccoon Roundworm (Baylisascaris Infection) Baylisascaris infection is caused by a roundworm found in raccoons.
It is also called Raccoon Roundworm and can infect people, dogs, and other animals.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Legal Foundations PURPOSE The resource on this page provides foundational information about law, its relationship to public health, and the practice of public health law.
Below is an overview of the legal doctrine of preemption, including a definition, the use of preemption as a strategy, and methods for local governments to address preemption.
Download Full File Additional information Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Study Results Public Health Law Bench Books Multisector Coordination Mutual Aid VIEW ALL Public Health Law Multisector Coordination SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Symptoms Causes Prevention Program VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Features Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VIEW ALL Public Health Guidance VIEW ALL Related Topics: Acanthamoeba Infections View All How to Safely Rinse Sinuses For Everyone JULY 16, 2025 ESPAÑOL KEY POINTS Although rare, people have died from rinsing their sinuses with tap or faucet water containing the germs Naegleria fowleri and Acanthamoeba.
When rinsing your sinuses or nasal passages, use store-bought distilled or sterilized water, or tap or faucet water that's been boiled and cooled.
Overview When immediate care is needed Seek medical attention right away if you or a loved one develops a headache, fever, confusion, or vomiting after rinsing your sinuses or nasal passages.
Many people rinse their sinuses and nasal passages.
Some do it to ease symptoms of colds or allergies.
Ritual nasal rinsing is common in some religious practices, including Islam, as well as yoga and ayurveda.
Germs such as the amebas Naegleria fowleri and Acanthamoeba can grow in public and private water tanks and pipes.
They can also grow in the pipes and water heaters in some homes and buildings.
Naegleria fowleri and Acanthamoeba can pose a serious risk to your health if they are in the water you use to rinse your sinuses or nasal passages.
If the amebas go up the nose and to the brain, they can cause nearly always fatal brain infections.
Although rare, people have died from rinsing their sinuses with tap water containing Naegleria fowleri and Acanthamoeba.
If you rinse your sinuses or nasal passages, take steps to make sure your water is safe from Naegleria fowleri and Acanthamoeba.
Use distilled, sterile, or boiled water When rinsing your sinuses or nasal passages, use store-bought water that is labeled "distilled" or "sterile." You can also use water you get from the tap or faucet that's been boiled and cooled.
Always use distilled, sterile, or boiled and cooled water for sinus or nasal rinsing.
Steps for boiling tap water Bring water to a rolling boil for 1 minute (at elevations above 6,500 feet, boil for 3 minutes).
Let the water cool.
Store unused boiled water in clean, sanitized containers with tight covers.
Disinfecting water for nasal rinsing If none of the options above are available, disinfect your water with unscented liquid household chlorine bleach.
How much bleach you use will depend on the bleach, the amount of water you're disinfecting, and whether the water is clear or cloudy and murky (turbid).
Particles in cloudy and murky water may prevent chlorine from killing Naegleria fowleri.
Note: The protocol below is intended only for sinus or nasal rinsing, not for disinfecting drinking water.
It uses a higher level of bleach than recommended for drinking water.
See how much bleach to add to your water in the tables below.
Steps for disinfecting water If the water is cloudy or murky, first filter it through a clean cloth, paper towel, or coffee filter.
Another option is to let it settle.
Then draw off the clear water and go to the next step.
With a medicine dropper, add the recommended number of drops of unscented liquid household chlorine bleach for the amount of water to be disinfected.
(See table below).
Stir the mixture well and let it stand for at least 30 minutes.
Store disinfected water in clean, sanitized, covered containers.
Disinfecting household bleach with 4% to 5.9% concentration of sodium hypochlorite Amount of water 1 quart or liter 5 drops of bleach 1 gallon 20 drops of bleach Note: If water is cloudy, murky, or very cold, double the amount of bleach.
Disinfecting household bleach with 6% to 8.25% concentration of sodium hypochlorite Amount of water 1 quart or liter 4 drops of bleach 1 gallon 13 drops of bleach Note: If water is cloudy, murky, or very cold, double the amount of bleach.
If liquid bleach is not available, solid chlorine tablets or powder may be used.
Two common forms that may be available are chlorinated isocyanurates and calcium hypochlorite.
Follow the manufacturer's instructions.
Resources Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (English) Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (English) MAY 14, 2024 Download Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (Arabic) Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (Arabic) MAY 13, 2024 Download Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (Urdu) Thumbnail image for Safe Ritual Nasal Rinsing (Urdu) MAY 13, 2024 Download ON THIS PAGE Overview Use distilled, sterile, or boiled water Disinfecting water for nasal rinsing Resources RELATED PAGES Prevention Reducing Risk When Swimming Causes Program About VIEW ALL Naegleria fowleri Infection Reducing Risk When Swimming SOURCES PRINT SHARE Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos About Síntomas Cómo contraen las personas una infección Cómo prevenir una infección por Naegleria fowleri Programa de Naegleria fowleri de los CDC VER TODO Proveedores de atención médica Características de una infección por Naegleria fowleri Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VER TODO Salud pública Naegleria fowleri y los sistemas de agua públicos VER TODO Temas relacionados: Acanthamoeba Infections Ver todo 14 DE ABRIL DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Cómo prevenir la infección por Naegleria fowleri cuando nade o se meta al agua PUNTOS CLAVE Las amebas Naegleria fowleri viven en agua dulce tibia como en lagos, estanques y aguas termales.
La Naegleria fowleri puede causar una infección rara pero mortal cuando la ameba entra por la nariz y sube al cerebro.
Tome medidas cuando nade o haga otras actividades en agua dulce tibia para reducir su riesgo de infección por Naegleria fowleri.
Información general Busque atención médica para estos síntomas Busque atención médica de inmediato si usted o un ser querido empieza de forma repentina a vomitar o tiene dolor de cabeza, fiebre o rigidez en el cuello después de nadar o jugar en agua dulce tibia.
Debería asumir que la Naegleria fowleri está presente en todos los lagos, estanques, ríos, aguas termales y otros cuerpos de agua dulce.
Cuando la ameba entra por la nariz y sube al cerebro, puede causar una infección rara llamada meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria (MAP o PAM, por sus siglas en inglés), la cual es casi siempre mortal.
Usted no puede contraer MAP al hacer lo siguiente: Nadar en una piscina, un parque para surfear u otros sitios acuáticos recreativos mantenidos y desinfectados de manera adecuada.
Tragar agua que contenga Naegleria fowleri.
Tenga en cuenta: nadie en los Estados Unidos ha contraído meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria por nadar en agua salada.
Consejos para la prevención El riesgo de una infección por Naegleria fowleri es muy bajo.
Hay generalmente menos de 10 muertes al año por la meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria en los Estados Unidos, en comparación con miles de muertes por ahogamiento.
Si nada, usa una tabla de esquí acuático (wakeboard) o participa en otras actividades acuáticas, puede tomar medidas para reducir su riesgo: Evite actividades durante los meses más calurosos cuando las temperaturas del agua aumentan y los niveles del agua bajan.
Las amebas Naegleria fowleri se multiplican en estas condiciones.
Tápese la nariz o use pinzas para la nariz si va a saltar o bucear en el agua.
Siempre mantenga la cabeza sobre el agua en aguas termales y otras aguas naturalmente calientes (geotérmicas).
Evite cavar o remover el sedimento en agua dulce poco profunda y templada.
Es más probable que las amebas Naegleria fowleri vivan en el sedimento del fondo de los lagos, estanques y ríos.
Meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria en su área Si se ha identificado un caso de meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria en su área, asegúrese de seguir los consejos de prevención.
Las pruebas ambientales y los letreros no se recomiendan debido a lo siguiente: El lugar en el que se encuentren las amebas y la cantidad pueden variar a lo largo del tiempo en el mismo cuerpo de agua.
No existen métodos de pruebas estandarizadas para detectar y determinar la cantidad de Naegleria fowleri en el agua.
Las personas pueden pensar erróneamente que el agua sin letreros está libre de Naegleria fowleri.
EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Consejos para la prevención Meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria en su área FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Public Health Law Bench Books WHAT TO KNOW Functional practice guides are designed to accelerate judges' understanding of an area of law.
Courts in most states typically have civil and criminal law bench books.
Some devote a portion to a treatise-like discussion of public health law intended for use by the judiciary, public health officials, state and local public health attorneys, and the public.
Resources State District of Columbia Public Health Emergency Law Manual Florida State Courts Georgia State Courts Kentucky State Courts Michigan State Court Minnesota State Courts Nebraska State Courts New York State Courts North Carolina State Courts Ohio State Court Oklahoma State Court Oregon Isolation and Quarantine Bench Book Pennsylvania State Court South Carolina State Texas State Courts Virginia State Courts Washington State Courts Local Southern Nevada Health District Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Vaccination Laws Study Results Legal Foundations Multisector Coordination VIEW ALL Public Health Law Legal Foundations SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health MAY 16, 2024 Social Distancing Law Assessment Project WHAT TO KNOW The President's National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza in 2005 and the U.S.
Homeland Security Council's related implementation plan in 2006 were the drivers for the Social Distancing Law Assessment Project.
Sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and directed by the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO), the Social Distancing Law Assessment Project was conducted in 17 jurisdictions in 2007 and 9 additional jurisdictions in 2010 to assess the sufficiency of their legal preparedness to implement social distancing effectively.
1 American Medical Association pg74 (2010).
Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Environmental Health Law Vaccination Laws Public Health Law Bench Books Legal Foundations VIEW ALL Public Health Law Public Health Law Bench Books SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos About Síntomas Cómo contraen las personas una infección Cómo prevenir una infección por Naegleria fowleri Programa de Naegleria fowleri de los CDC VER TODO Proveedores de atención médica Características de una infección por Naegleria fowleri Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VER TODO Salud pública Naegleria fowleri y los sistemas de agua públicos VER TODO Temas relacionados: Acanthamoeba Infections Ver todo 21 DE NOVIEMBRE DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Naegleria fowleri y los sistemas de agua públicos LO QUE DEBE SABER Aunque es poco común, la Naegleria fowleri ha causado muertes que se han asociado a sistemas de agua públicos desinfectados o no tratados, tanto en los Estados Unidos como en varios otros países.
Si se sospecha que la Naegleria fowleri ha contaminado un sistema de agua público, las personas deben tomar medidas para evitar que les entre agua por la nariz, lo que podría causar una infección cerebral grave.
Cuando la Naegleria fowleri contamina los sistemas de agua públicos Realidad‎ Cuando la Naegleria fowleri viaja de la nariz al cerebro, puede causar una infección cerebral rara, pero casi siempre mortal.
Tome medidas para evitar que el agua del grifo contaminada le entre por la nariz.
La Naegleria fowleri puede causar meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria (MAP o PAM, por sus siglas en inglés), una infección cerebral rara que casi siempre es mortal.
La mayoría de los casos de meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria ocurren cuando a una persona le entra por la nariz el agua de lagos, ríos u otros cuerpos de agua dulce no tratados.
La Naegleria fowleri ha causado muertes asociadas a sistemas de agua públicos desinfectados y un sistema de agua geotermal sin tratar en los Estados Unidos.
También se han vinculado muertes en Australia y Pakistán a suministros de agua públicos desinfectados, que estaban contaminados con Naegleria fowleri.
Si se sospecha que un sistema de agua público ha sido contaminado con Naegleria fowleri, la empresa de abastecimiento de agua puede aumentar los niveles de desinfectante y purgar el sistema.
Cuando esto ocurre, el agua puede tener un fuerte sabor u olor a sustancia química.
La empresa de abastecimiento de agua trabajará para garantizar que el agua del grifo siga cumpliendo con los estándares para agua potable.
Consejos para la prevención La capa de verdín o la biopelícula que usualmente recubre las cañerías de los sistemas de abastecimiento de agua y las casas podría contener Naegleria fowleri.
Parte de la capa contaminada podría desprenderse en un sistema de agua o en el agua de grifo de una casa cuando la empresa de abastecimiento de agua aumente los niveles de desinfectante.
Las personas que reciban el servicio de un sistema de agua público que se haya determinado que contiene Naegleria fowleri deben tomar medidas adicionales para evitar que el agua del grifo les entre por la nariz.
Cuando la Naegleria fowleri viaja de la nariz al cerebro, puede causar meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria.
Las recomendaciones para las personas que usan un sistema de agua que esté contaminado con Naegleria fowleri incluyen: NO permita que le entre agua por la nariz cuando se bañe, se duche, se lave la cara o nade en una piscina pequeña de plástico duro o inflable.
NO meta la cabeza bajo el agua cuando se bañe o nade en una piscina pequeña de plástico duro o inflable.
NO permita que los niños jueguen con el agua de la manguera o de los rociadores sin supervisión, ya que les puede entrar agua por la nariz accidentalmente.
Evite los juegos acuáticos como el slip-n-slide u otras actividades en las que sea difícil prevenir que entre agua por la nariz.
SÍ deje correr el agua del baño, la ducha y las mangueras durante cinco minutos antes de usarlas, para limpiar las cañerías.
Es muy importante hacer esto la primera vez que use el agua del grifo después de que la empresa de abastecimiento de agua haya elevado los niveles de desinfectante.
SÍ use solamente agua hervida, destilada o esterilizada si se lava los senos paranasales o los conductos nasales.
SÍ mantenga limpias las piscinas pequeñas de plástico duro o inflables vaciándolas, fregándolas y dejándolas secar después de cada uso.
SÍ mantenga su piscina adecuadamente desinfectada.
Si necesita llenar la piscina hasta el tope con agua del grifo, coloque la manguera directamente dentro de la caja del filtro de superficie y asegúrese de que el filtro esté funcionando.
No ponga la manguera directamente dentro de la piscina para llenarla hasta el tope.
Siga leyendo: Prevención de la infección por Naegleria fowleri al lavarse los senos paranasales o los conductos nasales Siga leyendo: Acerca de la infección por Naegleria fowleri Siga leyendo: Directrices para mantener la piscina segura y saludable EN ESTA PÁGINA Cuando la Naegleria fowleri contamina los sistemas de agua públicos Consejos para la prevención FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All MAY 16, 2024 Vaccination Laws AT A GLANCE The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) partners with others to support vaccine safety.
Vaccination laws improve vaccine safety by providing vaccination rules for certain age groups and populations.
The Public Health Law Program offers resources about state vaccination laws for health workers and their legal advisors.
State healthcare worker and patient vaccination laws Hospitals and clinics nationwide are increasingly asking their staff to get vaccinated against certain diseases to prevent outbreaks.
Sometimes, this is because state laws and rules say they have to.
The Public Health Law Program (PHLP) looks into state laws about vaccinations in healthcare facilities for certain diseases.
Hepatitis B Menu of State Healthcare Facility Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws Influenza Menu of State Ambulatory Care Facility Influenza Vaccination Laws Menu of State Hospital Influenza Vaccination Laws Menu of State Long-Term Care Facility Influenza Vaccination Laws Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Menu of State Healthcare Facility Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) Vaccination Laws Pertussis Menu of State Healthcare Facility Pertussis Vaccination Laws Pneumococcal disease Menu of State Ambulatory Care Facility Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws Menu of State Hospital Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws Menu of State Long-Term Care Facility Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws Varicella Menu of State Healthcare Facility Varicella Vaccination Laws State School Vaccination Laws All states have rules that students must get vaccinated against specific contagious diseases to attend school.
These rules are usually the same for public and private schools, including which vaccines and how to get exceptions.
PHLP has reviewed state rules, regulations, and health department policies about school vaccinations.
The following assessment, completed in 2019, updates information gathered in 2015 and then updated in 2017.
View State School Immunization Requirements and Vaccine Exemption Laws Polar Graph on State School Vaccination Exemptions Law State laws not only set rules for when students can skip school vaccination requirements.
They also decide how the exemption process works.
The following graph uses 2019 information.
It shows key features of school vaccination exemption laws, detailed in PHLP's review (linked above).
Polar graph on state school vaccination exemptions law.
Legend for the polar graph.
State Immunization Information System Laws Immunization information systems (IIS) keep digital records of all vaccine shots given by healthcare providers in a specific area.
These systems are also known as vaccine registries.
Usually, when a healthcare provider gives a vaccine, they put details about the patient and the vaccine into the medical record.
They then report it to an IIS database managed by a health department.
Additional Resource The following article addresses recent changes and patterns in certain state vaccine policies in the United States.
These changes might impact vaccination rates.1 The Latest in Vaccine Policies: Selected Issues in School Vaccinations, Healthcare Worker Vaccinations, and Pharmacist Vaccination Authority Laws ON THIS PAGE State healthcare worker and patient vaccination laws State School Vaccination Laws Polar Graph on State School Vaccination Exemptions Law State Immunization Information System Laws Additional Resource SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Naegleria fowleri Infection EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos About Síntomas Cómo contraen las personas una infección Cómo prevenir una infección por Naegleria fowleri Programa de Naegleria fowleri de los CDC VER TODO Proveedores de atención médica Características de una infección por Naegleria fowleri Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VER TODO Salud pública Naegleria fowleri y los sistemas de agua públicos VER TODO Temas relacionados: Acanthamoeba Infections Ver todo Características de una infección por Naegleria fowleri Proveedores de atención médica 18 DE SEP.
DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) LO QUE DEBE SABER La Naegleria fowleri puede causar una infección del cerebro rara llamada meningoencefalitis amebiana primaria (MAP).
La MAP destruye tejido del cerebro y casi siempre es mortal.
La MAP evoluciona rápidamente, por lo que es importante reconocer los signos de la enfermedad.
Presentación de la enfermedad Médicos Para obtener ayuda las 24 horas del día, 7 días a la semana, con los diagnósticos, orientación con la recolección de muestras, instrucciones de envío y recomendaciones de tratamientos, comuníquense con el Centro de Operaciones de Emergencia de los CDC llamando al 770-488-7100.
Las infecciones por Naegleria fowleri destruyen el tejido cerebral y pueden causar edema cerebral, que es a menudo la causa de muerte del paciente.
La mayoría de las personas con MAP mueren de 1 a 18 días después del comienzo de los síntomas.
Generalmente la MAP causa el coma y la muerte después de 5 días.
Los primeros síntomas más comunes de la MAP son dolor de cabeza, fiebre, náuseas y vómitos.
Los síntomas posteriores incluyen rigidez en el cuello, letargo, confusión, desorientación, fotofobia, convulsiones y anomalías en los nervios craneales.
Los hallazgos del examen médico podrían incluir signos meníngeos y deficiencias neurológicas focales.
Los signos y síntomas se parecen a aquellos de la meningitis bacteriana, especialmente en las fases iniciales.
En raras ocasiones, se han observado anomalías en el gusto o el olfato, obstrucciones nasales y secreción nasal.
Los hallazgos en autopsias han incluido necrosis hemorrágica de los bulbos olfatorios y el córtex cerebral.
PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Clinical Care VER TODO Naegleria fowleri Infection Clinical Testing and Diagnosis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Naegleria fowleri Infection Naegleria fowleri is an ameba commonly called the “brain-eating ameba” because it causes a brain infection when water containing the ameba goes up the nose.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Environmental Health Law WHAT TO KNOW The environment is everything around us—the air we breathe, the water we drink and use, and the food we consume.
It's also the chemicals, radiation, microbes, and physical forces with which we come into contact.
Our interactions with the environment are complex and are not always healthy.
Environmental health laws and policies are created to regulate and safeguard our environment.
Large-scale animal farms are classified as either animal feeding operations or concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs), depending on the number of animals housed.
This menu examines state laws on CAFOs and the environmental odors they produce.
This article was published in Capital University Law Review 2014;42(1):97–141.
Disclaimer: Information available on this website that was not developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not necessarily represent any CDC policy, position, or endorsement of that information or of its sources.
The information contained on this website is not legal advice; if you have questions about a specific law or its application you should consult your legal counsel.
Download Full File (219 KB) RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Health Equity Law Vaccination Laws Study Results Public Health Law Bench Books Legal Foundations VIEW ALL Public Health Law Vaccination Laws SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos La natación y su salud Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Nadar de manera saludable y segura Responder a contaminación Kit de herramientas VER TODO Temas relacionados: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Ver todo Directrices para mantener la piscina segura y saludable 24 DE JUN.
DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) PUNTOS CLAVE Tener una piscina en casa puede ser una manera divertida para mantenerse activo o simplemente relajarse.
Es importante saber lo que debe hacer para reducir el riesgo de lesiones y enfermedades relacionadas con el uso de la piscina y así maximizar todos los beneficios para la salud que puede brindar la natación.
Siga estos pasos para que todos se mantengan seguros y saludables.
Los riesgos Ahogamiento Más niños de 1 a 4 años mueren ahogados que por cualquier otra causa.
Productos químicos para piscinas El manejo inadecuado de los productos químicos para piscinas puede causar lesiones graves.
Las lesiones causadas por productos químicos para piscinas producen alrededor de 4500 visitas al año a las salas de emergencias en los Estados Unidos, y más de una tercera parte de estas lesiones prevenibles ocurren en niños o adolescentes.
Microbios Un solo incidente de diarrea en el agua puede liberar millones de microbios que causan diarrea.
Estos microbios pueden hacer que otras personas en el agua se enfermen si tragan tan solo una pequeña cantidad de agua contaminada.
Si bien los niveles recomendados de cloro o bromo eliminan la mayoría de los microbios en minutos, el Cryptosporidium es un microbio que puede sobrevivir en el agua adecuadamente tratada más de 7 días.
Medidas que se deben tomar Prevenga los ahogamientos Asegúrese de que todos tengan las destrezas básicas de natación y de seguridad en el agua.
Use chalecos salvavidas aprobados por la Guardia Costera de los Estados Unidos según las indicaciones.
Provea supervisión continua y cercana a los que estén en el agua.
Aprenda a reconocer y responder si una persona necesita socorro y cómo hacer reanimación cardiopulmonar (RCP o CPR, por sus siglas en inglés).
No deje que los niños se metan en la piscina de su casa sin supervisión.
Instale una cerca de cuatro lados alrededor de la piscina que la separe de la casa, con puertas de acceso que se cierren solas y seguro automatico.
Use seguros y alarmas en las puertras y ventananas.
Use equipos de protección, como mascarillas, guantes y gafas protectoras, cuando manipule estos productos.
Manténgalos en un lugar cerrado y fuera del alcance de los niños y las mascotas.
Elimine los microbios de su piscina La desinfección (con cloro o bromo) y el nivel de pH del agua son la primera defensa contra los microbios que causan enfermedades relacionadas con la natación.
A los niveles recomendados, el cloro o el bromo pueden eliminar la mayor parte de los microbios en el agua en minutos.
Revise el nivel de desinfectante (cloro o bromo) y el pH del agua al menos dos veces al día (y más seguido cuando la piscina se esté usando mucho) para asegurarse de que estén dentro de los niveles recomendados: Para el cloro y el bromo, siga las instrucciones del fabricante de su producto.
El rango típico es 1-4 ppm para el cloro y 3-8 ppm para el bromo pH 7.0-7.8 Si el pH de la piscina está demasiado alto o demasiado bajo, puede hacer que el cloro o el bromo sean menos eficaces para eliminar los microbios.
Esto también puede causar irritación a los ojos y la piel de los nadadores y dañar el equipo de la piscina.
Mantenga a los nadadores saludables Anime a todos los que usan la piscina a que sigan estas recomendaciones: No entre a la piscina si tiene diarrea.
Dúchese durante al menos 1 minuto antes de entrar al agua para quitarse la suciedad o cualquier otra sustancia que tenga sobre el cuerpo Cuanso el cloro se mezcla con suiedad, sudor, pis y caca se crean sustancias químicas que causan enrojecimiento y ardor en los ojos de los nadadores.
Cuanda el cloro se mezcla con suciedad, sudor, pis y caca, tambien significa que hay menos cloro disponible para también significa que hay menos cloro disponible paara elminiar microbios.
No trague el agua.
No haga ni pis ni caca en el agua.
Lleve a los niños al baño o revise los pañales cada hora.
Aléjese del lado de la piscina para cambirales los pañales a fin de evitar que entren microbios al agua.
Séquese bien los oídos con una toalla después de estar en el agua para prevenir el oído de nadador.
Recursos Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Cómo prevenir los ahogamientos EN ESTA PÁGINA Los riesgos Medidas que se deben tomar Recursos FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Public Health Law EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Health Care Providers Public Health Counsel Partners VIEW ALL Public Health About the Public Health Law Program CDC Public Health Law Educational Opportunities Tribal Public Health Publications and Resources Health Information & Privacy Public Health Law News Training Resources Partners Technical Assistance Coroner and Medical Examiner Laws VIEW ALL View All Public Health JULY 10, 2024 Health Equity Law AT A GLANCE The Public Health Law Program's (PHLP's) Health Equity portfolio includes research on antidiscrimination laws, as well as research on public health law's impact on the social determinants of health.
The resources below provide more information about health equity as it relates to law.
Resources Health equity is the "attainment of the highest level of health for all people.1 Health equity can be achieved only by eliminating health disparities—the preventable differences in the health of one group over another as the result of factors such as race, sexual orientation, sex, disability, age, socioeconomic status, or geographic location.
Law is a valuable tool to help achieve health equity.
Law and the Social Determinants of Health—Education, Housing, Environment, Economics Health in All Policies (HiAP) Team Health: Legal Landscape of Federal and State HiAP and HIA Laws American Public Health Association, November 2015 Housing Homelessness as Public Health Law Issue: Selected Resources A list of resources collected and published by PHLP that describe and comment on homelessness as a public health issue.
Education as a Social Determinant of Health: The Role of Laws and Policies Webinar: Making Sure Kids are Healthy Enough to Learn: Innovations in Education Law and Policy – Network for Public Health Law  , September 2019 Environment and Health Webinar: Learning from the Flint Water Crisis: Legal Implications and Community Public Health Impacts , May 15, 2018 Webinar: Public Health's Legal Authority and Safe Drinking Water American Public Health Association, April 5, 2016 Antidiscrimination Law Balancing Client Privacy with First Amendment Rights in Local Health Department Clinics – Network for Public Health Law  Mechanisms for Advancing Health Equity – Network for Public Health Law  Balancing Client Privacy with First Amendment Rights in Local Health Department Clinics – Network for Public Health Law  Other CDC Resources Health Equity Office of Minority Health and Health Equity: CDC Health Disparities & Inequalities Report (CHDIR) Health Equity National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion: A Practitioner's Guide for Advancing Health Equity: Community Strategies for Preventing Chronic Disease Office of Health Equity Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention/Office Tribal Public Health Law Resources PHLP law and policy resources related to tribal public health Other Partners' Resources Building Streets for Health and Equity ChangeLab Solutions Health Equity Association of State and Territorial Health Officials Health Equity The Community Guide Health Equity and Social Justice National Association of County and City Health Officials Health Equity American Public Health Association Health Disparities Robert Wood Johnson Foundation RELATED PAGES Publications and Resources Environmental Health Law Vaccination Laws Study Results Public Health Law Bench Books Legal Foundations VIEW ALL Public Health Law Environmental Health Law SOURCES PRINT SHARE Public Health Law The Public Health Law Program works to improve the health of the public by developing law-related tools and providing legal technical assistance to public health practitioners and policy makers in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) jurisdictions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Prevention Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Pool Contamination Response Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Campaigns VIEW ALL Public Health Pool Inspection Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code View All MAY 28, 2025 ESPAÑOL Preventing Swimmer's Ear KEY POINTS Swimmer’s ear is a bacterial infection caused by water that stays in the outer ear canal for a long period of time, providing a moist environment for bacteria to multiply.
Children are more likely to get swimmer's ear than adults, but it can affect anyone.
Swimmer’s ear is not contagious.
Overview Swimmer's ear (also known as acute otitis externa) is a bacterial infection.
It is typically caused by water that has stayed in the outer ear canal for a long time.
This wears down protective wax and skin and provides a moist environment for bacteria to multiply.
Anyone can get swimmer's ear, but it is most often seen in children.
Swimmer's ear cannot be spread from one person to another.
Swimmer's ear is different from a middle ear infection, which is also common in children.
Signs and symptoms of swimmer's ear Pain when the outer ear is tugged or when pressure is put on the part of the outer ear that sticks out in front of the ear canal (tragus) Itchiness inside the ear Drainage from the ear Redness and swelling in the ear Prevention steps and strategies Keep ears as dry as possible Use a bathing cap, ear plugs, or custom-fitted swim molds when swimming.
Dry ears thoroughly after swimming or showering Tilt head back and forth so that each ear faces down to allow water to drain out of the ear canal.
Use a towel to dry ears well.
Pull earlobe in different directions when ear faces down to help water drain out.
If water remains, you can use a hair dryer on the lowest heat and speed/fan setting.
Hold the hair dryer several inches from ear.
Check with your healthcare provider about using ear-drying drops after swimming Don't use these drops if you have ear tubes (tympanostomy tubes), punctured ear drums, swimmer's ear, or ear drainage.
Don't put objects in ear canal Including cotton-tip swabs, pencils, paperclips, or keys.
Don't try to remove ear wax Ear wax helps protect the ear canal from infection.
Treatment Check with your healthcare provider if you have ear pain or drainage from the ear.
Swimmer's ear can be treated with antibiotic ear drops.
Resources Ear Infection Basics Preventing Swimming-Related Illnesses ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs and symptoms of swimmer's ear Prevention steps and strategies Treatment Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Ear Infection EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Related Topics Antibiotic Prescribing and Use More from CDC Health Topics A-Z Outbreaks About CDC Health Topics A-Z APRIL 17, 2024 ESPAÑOL Ear Infection Basics KEY POINTS Is your child's ear hurting?
It could be an ear infection.
Some ear infections, in particular some middle ear infections, need antibiotic treatment, but many can get better without antibiotics.
Talk to your child's healthcare provider about the best treatment.
Overview Children are more likely than adults to get ear infections.
There are different types of ear infections.
Middle ear infection (acute otitis media) is an infection in the middle ear.
Otitis media with effusion is another condition that affects the middle ear.
Occurs when fluid builds up in the middle ear without causing an infection.
Does not cause fever, ear pain, or pus build-up in the middle ear.
Swimmer's ear is an infection in the outer ear canal.
Different from a middle ear infection.
For more information, visit "Swimmer's Ear" (Otitis Externa) A healthy ear including outer, middle, and inner ear.
An infected ear showing inflammation and fluid in the ear.
Signs and symptoms Ear pain Fever Fussiness or irritability Rubbing or tugging at an ear Difficulty sleeping Causes Bacteria, like Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae (nontypeable), are the two most common bacteria causing middle ear infection.
Viruses, like those that cause colds can cause middle ear infection.
Prevention Help prevent ear infections by doing your best to stay healthy and keep others healthy: Receive recommended vaccines, such as flu vaccine and pneumococcal vaccine.
Pneumococcal vaccine protects against a common cause of middle ear infections, Streptococcus pneumonia.
Clean your hands.
Breastfeed exclusively until your baby is 6 months old and continue to breastfeed for at least 12 months.
Don't smoke and avoid exposure to secondhand smoke.
Dry your ears thoroughly after swimming.
When to seek medical care A fever of 102.2°F (39°C) or higher.
Pus, discharge, or fluid coming from the ear.
Worsening symptoms.
Symptoms of a middle ear infection that last for more than 2–3 days.
Hearing loss.
This list is not all-inclusive.
Please see a healthcare provider for any symptom that is severe or concerning.
Talk to a healthcare provider right away‎ If your child is under 3 months old with a fever of 100.4 °F (38 °C) or higher.
Diagnosis A healthcare provider can diagnose a middle ear infection by asking about symptoms and examining your child.
They will look inside your child's ear to examine the eardrum and look for pus in the middle ear.
Treatment Talk to your child's healthcare provider about the best treatment.
The body's immune system can often fight off middle ear infection on its own.
Sometimes you do not need antibiotics for middle ear infections.
Severe middle ear infections or infections that last longer than 2–3 days need antibiotics right away.
For mild middle ear infection, your healthcare provider might recommend watchful waiting or delayed antibiotic prescribing.
Watchful waiting: Your child's healthcare provider may suggest watching and waiting for 2-3 days to see if your child needs antibiotics.
This gives the immune system time to fight off the infection.
If your child's symptoms don't improve, the healthcare provider may prescribe an antibiotic.
Delayed prescribing: Your child's healthcare provider may prescribe an antibiotic but suggest that you wait 2–3 days before filling the prescription.
Your child may recover on their own and may not need the antibiotic.
How to feel better Rest.
Drink extra water or other fluids.
Take over-the-counter medicines to relieve pain or fever.
These actions can make you feel better, even if you use antibiotics.
Ask your healthcare provider about over-the-counter medicines that can help you feel better.
Always use over-the-counter medicines as directed.
Remember, over-the-counter medicines may provide temporary relief of symptoms, but they will not cure your illness.
Over-the-counter medicine and children Carefully read and follow instructions on over-the-counter medicine product labels before giving medicines to children.
Healthcare providers do not recommend some over-the-counter medicines for children of certain ages.
Pain relievers: Children younger than 6 months: only give acetaminophen.
Children 6 months or older: it is OK to give acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
Never give aspirin to children because it can cause Reye's syndrome.
Reye's syndrome is a very serious, but rare illness that can harm the liver and brain.
Cough and cold medicines: Children younger than 4 years old: do not use over-the-counter cough and cold medicines in young children unless a healthcare provider specifically tells you to.
Cough and cold medicines can result in serious and sometimes life-threatening side effects in young children.
Children 4 years or older: discuss with your child's healthcare provider if over-the-counter cough and cold medicines are safe to give to your child.
Ask your healthcare provider about the right dosage of over-the-counter medicines for your child's age and size.
Also, tell your child's healthcare provider about all prescription and over-the-counter medicines they are taking.
Resources Virus vs.
Bacteria What's Got You Sick?
Sign up for Email Updates Contact Us About CDC Policies Languages Archive HHS.GOV USA.GOV
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Advancing Health Equity in Chronic Disease SEARCH NCCDPHP's Approach Our Work in Action Programs Communications Social Determinants of Health Tools for Partners Rural Health VIEW ALL NCCDPHP's Approach The National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion is advancing healthy equity.
Learn More Chronic disease and social determinants of health Social Determinants of Health NCCDPHP uses programs, partnerships, research, and data to address social determinants of health.
Learn More More about our work Communications See how we view health equity in communication planning and development.
Our Work in Action These brief videos show examples of our work in action, and why it matters.
Tools for Partners Explore our tools to activate, engage, and strengthen partnerships.
Health Equity Science Surveillance systems and data applications to guide health equity work.
Advancing Health Equity in Chronic Disease The National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion advances healthy equity through six areas of action.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos La natación y su salud Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Nadar de manera saludable y segura Responder a contaminación Kit de herramientas VER TODO Temas relacionados: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Ver todo Para todos 2 AGOSTO DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Cómo prevenir el oído de nadador PUNTOS CLAVE El oído de nadador es una infección bacteriana causada por agua que queda en el canal auditivo externo por un largo periodo, lo que presenta un espacio húmedo para que se multipliquen las bacterias.
Es más probable que los niños contraigan oído de nadador que los adultos, pero puede afectar a cualquier persona.
Esta infección no es contagiosa.
Información general El oído de nadador (también conocido como otitis externa aguda) es una infección bacteriana.
Generalmente es causada por agua que se ha quedado en el canal auditivo externo por un largo periodo.
Esto deteriora la cera protectora y la piel, y proporciona un ambiente húmedo para que se multipliquen las bacterias.
Cualquier persona puede presentar oído de nadador, pero se ve más a menudo en los niños.
El oído de nadador no se puede propagar de persona a persona.
Esta infección es distinta de una infección del oído medio, que también es común en los niños.
Signos y síntomas del oído de nadador Dolor cuando se tira de la oreja o se ejerce presión en la parte del oído externo que sobresale frente al canal auditivo (trago).
Picazón dentro del oído Secreción proveniente del oído Enrojecimiento e inflamación en el oído Medidas y estrategias de prevención Mantenga los oídos lo más secos posible Use una gorra de nadar, tapones para oídos o moldes adaptados a los oídos cuando nade.
Séquese bien los oídos después de nadar o ducharse Incline la cabeza hacia los lados para que los oídos queden en una posición que permita que el agua se drene del canal auditivo.
Use una toalla para secarse bien los oídos.
Tire de los lóbulos de las orejas en distintas direcciones mientras mantiene el oído hacia abajo para ayudar a drenar el agua.
Si sigue quedando agua, puede usar un secador de pelo que esté programado en la temperatura más fría y en el ventilador más bajo.
Coloque el secador de pelo a varias pulgadas de distancia de su oído.
Consulte a su proveedor de atención médica con respecto a usar gotas para secar los oídos después de nadar NO use estas gotas si tiene tubos en los oídos (tubos con miringotomía), los tímpanos rotos, oído de nadador o secreciones provenientes de los oídos.
No ponga objetos en el canal auditivo Esto incluye bastoncitos de algodón (hisopo), lápices, clips para papel o llaves.
No intente sacar la cerca del oído La cera de los oídos ayuda a proteger al canal auditivo de las infecciones.
Tratamiento Consulte a su proveedor de atención médica si tiene dolor o secreciones en los oídos.
Se puede tratar con gotas para los oídos que contienen antibióticos.
Recursos Información básica sobre las infecciones de oído Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Signos y síntomas del oído de nadador Medidas y estrategias de prevención Tratamiento Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Prevenir las enfermedades diarreicas Cómo prevenir la foliculitis del jacuzzi o sarpullido de la bañera de hidromasaje Protégete de la legionela en los jacuzzis Prevenir irritación de ojos Prevenir los piojos, los oxiuros y el SARM VER TODO Healthy Swimming Protégete de la legionela en los jacuzzis FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Prevention Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Pool Contamination Response Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Campaigns VIEW ALL Public Health Pool Inspection Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code View All Pool Inspection Toolkit AUG.
26, 2025 AT A GLANCE Inspections are an essential part of aquatics and recreational water programs.
Use our resources to improve your program's inspections of public pools, hot tubs, and water parks.
Importance of inspections Inspections assess whether aquatic facility's operation and maintenance meet the standards set in the jurisdiction’s public health code.
During inspections, environmental health practitioners can serve as illness-and-injury-prevention advisors to pool operators.
Immediate closures and violations offer an opportunity to educate operators about proper operation and maintenance and how it prevents repeated violations.
Impact of inspections Recent studies found that routine inspections resulted in immediate closure of 11.8% (1 out of 8) of public pools and 15.1% (1 out of 7) of public hot tubs because of health hazards.1 What's included Inspection Toolkit: Inspection Form Resources Use our inspection form and resources to inspect aquatic venues based on CDC's guidance.
18, 2024 Inspection Toolkit: Training Take our online on aquatic facility systems and pool inspection.
21, 2024 Inspection Toolkit: Using Your Data Use your inspection data to identify trends and improve your aquatics program.
11, 2024 More resources Environmental health staff in aquatics programs might also be interested in these related resources: Information about the MAHC, including forms, protocols, and more Pool contamination response resources Aquatics professionals toolkit Healthy and Safe Swimming Week CDC guidance on surf venues ON THIS PAGE Importance of inspections What's included More resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Prevention Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Pool Contamination Response Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Campaigns VIEW ALL Public Health Pool Inspection Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code View All ESPAÑOL Find Information For Everyone Public Health Healthy Swimming Healthy Habits Tips for Using Swim Diapers Guidelines and Recommendations Prevention Diarrheal Illnesses Preventing Hot Tub Rash Swimmer's Ear Legionella in Hot Tubs Eye Irritation from Pool Chemicals Lice, Pinworms, and MRSA at the Pool Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Stay Healthy in Hot Tubs Stay Healthy at Splash Pads Keeping Your Pool Safe and Healthy Visit Oceans, Lakes, and Rivers Stay Healthy in Kiddie Pools Pool Contamination Response When There is Blood or Vomit in the Pool Dead Animals in the Pool Raccoons in and around the Pool Birds in and around the Pool Poop in the Pool Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Operating Pools, Hot Tubs & Splash Pads Chloramines and Pool Operation Pool Chemical Safety Surf Venue Guidance Pool Chemical Emergencies Campaigns Healthy & Safe Swimming Week Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Didn't find the information you were looking for?
Health Topics A-Z Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Advancing Health Equity in Chronic Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone NCCDPHP's Approach Our Work in Action Programs Communications Social Determinants of Health Tools for Partners Rural Health VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Health Equity Science: Research and Evaluation VIEW ALL View All Health Equity Science: Data to Inform Health Equity Actions Health Care Providers AUG.
14, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) approach to health equity science is to gather and analyze data through surveillance systems to understand which groups are most affected by chronic disease, and then use this data to figure out what actions can be taken to help eliminate health inequities.
Chronic disease data applications NCCDPHP collects data on chronic disease conditions, in addition to data on social needs, structural and social determinants of health, and other drivers of health disparities and markers of health inequity.
CDC maintains a variety of interactive applications that provide data, maps, and charts on chronic diseases that can be used by people working in public health to better understand health disparities in their communities.
Featured data Data, Trends, and Maps – Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity This interactive database provides national and state data about the health status and behaviors of Americans.
It also includes data on environmental or policy supports.
Categories include breastfeeding, fruits and vegetables, physical activity, sugar drinks, television watching, and obesity/weight status.
Interactive Atlas of Heart Disease and Stroke This web-based interface allows users to view county maps of heart disease and stroke by racial and ethnic group, along with maps of socioeconomic conditions and health services for the entire United States or for a chosen state or territory.
Oral Health Data This interactive map lets users explore the number of people receiving fluoridated water in their state or county.
The database also presents state data for children and adults across various indicators, including rates of cavities, dental visits, and tooth loss.
Population Level Analysis and Community Estimates (PLACES) PLACES provides modeled data estimates for all U.S.
counties, incorporated and census-designated places, ZIP Code Tabulation Areas, and census tracts.
PLACES reports data for 36 chronic disease measures, including social determinants of health that substantially impact public health.
Chronic disease surveillance systems Public health surveillance refers to the collection, analysis, and use of data to guide public health prevention efforts.
Public health practitioners use these data to better understand things like: How many people engage in unhealthy behaviors.
How many people have chronic diseases.
How many people access preventive care.
How well prevention efforts are working.
Health equity science examines patterns and factors that contribute to health inequities.
The data from surveillance systems is used as evidence to guide programs, policy, communications, and future scientific study focused on eliminating inequities.
Learn more about the many chronic disease surveillance systems.
Featured surveillance Data from surveillance can be used to inform actions and programs that can keep people safer and healthier.
These data are used to examine larger trends to guide recommendations and future research.
The following three chronic disease surveillance systems are just a few examples from NCCDPHP’s rich resource collection.
Current cigarette smoking among adults in the United States Review CDC's latest data on adult tobacco use.
Information is presented by race and ethnicity, education, annual household income, sexual orientation, health insurance coverage, disability/limitation, and mental health symptoms.
Breastfeeding, obesity, and physical inactivity maps Breastfeeding initiation maps, adult obesity maps, and adult physical inactivity maps highlight disparities and can be used to identify places that might benefit from focused interventions.
United States Diabetes Surveillance System This interactive web application provides national, state, and county estimates of diabetes, physical inactivity, and obesity in the context of important social factors, including access to health care, transportation, and healthy food.
ON THIS PAGE Chronic disease data applications Chronic disease surveillance systems RELATED PAGES Health Equity Science: Research and Evaluation VIEW ALL Advancing Health Equity in Chronic Disease Health Equity Science: Research and Evaluation SOURCES PRINT SHARE Advancing Health Equity in Chronic Disease The National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion advances healthy equity through six areas of action.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos La natación y su salud Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Nadar de manera saludable y segura Responder a contaminación Kit de herramientas VER TODO Temas relacionados: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Ver todo Para todos 2 AGOSTO DEL 2024 ENGLISH (US) Cómo prevenir los piojos, los oxiuros y el SARM (staphylococcus aureus resistente a la meticilina) en la piscina PUNTOS CLAVE Es poco probable que las infecciones por piojos de la cabeza, SARM (staphylococcus aureus resistente a la meticilina) y oxiuros se propaguen a través de agua recreativa, como en piscinas, bañeras de hidromasaje o chorros de agua.
Sin embargo, estas infecciones se pueden propagar por el contacto con personas u objetos cuando visita estos sitios acuáticos recreativos.
Infórmese sobre cómo protegerse.
Exposición Piojos de la cabeza Es poco probable que los piojos de la cabeza se propaguen a través del agua de una piscina, de una bañera de hidromasaje o de un chorro.
Los piojos de la cabeza sobreviven al agarrarse del cabello.
Aunque los niveles de cloro usados en las piscinas, las bañeras de hidromasaje y los chorros de agua no matan a los piojos, es poco probable que dejen de agarrarse cuando una persona sumerge la cabeza.
Los piojos de la cabeza se pueden propagar al compartir toallas, cepillos u otros artículos que han estado en contacto con el cabello de una persona infectada.
SARM No ha habido informes de la propagación del SARM a través de agua recreativa.
El SARM no sobrevive por mucho tiempo en el agua que tiene niveles adecuados de desinfectante (cloro) y pH.
Hay un riesgo potencial de que el SARM se propague a través del contacto directo con la persona infectada por estos microbios, o el contacto directo con objetos y superficies contaminados.
El contacto directo sucede cuando usted toca a una persona que está infectada con SARM.
El contacto indirecto puede suceder cuando usted comparte artículos (como toallas o afeitadoras) o toca superficies (como pasamanos o bancos de vestuarios) que estén contaminados con SARM.
Es mucho más probable que el SARM cause una infección cuando los microbios entran en contacto con un corte o raspadura que no estén cubiertos.
Infestación por oxiuro Las infestaciones por oxiuro raramente se propagan a través de aguas recreativas.
Estas suceden cuando una persona traga los huevos del oxiuro que están en las superficies o en las heces (caca) contaminadas.
A pesar de que los niveles de cloro que se encuentran en las piscinas no son lo suficientemente altos como para matar a los huevos, la presencia de una pequeña cantidad de ellos en miles de galones de agua hace que la posibilidad de infestación sea poco probable.
Medidas y estrategias de prevención Piojos de la cabeza Para protegerse de los piojos de la cabeza en la piscina, no comparta toallas, cepillos ni otros artículos que entren en contacto con el cabello de otra persona.
Si ya tiene piojos, no nade ni se lave el cabello uno o dos días después de haberlo tratado con champú contra piojos; estas medidas harán que el tratamiento sea menos eficaz.
SARM Todos los nadadores No toquen ningún bulto, corte, áreas infectadas o vendajes en la piel de otra persona.
No compartan artículos, como toallas o afeitadoras, con otras personas.
Mantengan los cortes y raspaduras limpios y cubiertos con vendajes.
Hablen con el encargado de la piscina, bañera de hidromasaje o chorro de agua para garantizar que: Limpie las superficies que se tocan frecuentemente Lave las toallas después de cada uso Mantenga los niveles adecuados de desinfectante y pH en el agua para matar a los microbios Si tiene una infección en la piel Podría ser difícil mantener la piel infectada cubierta por completo con un vendaje impermeable mientras esté en el agua; por ese motivo, es mejor mantenerse afuera del agua.
Pero si entra, cubra por completo todos los bultos, cortes o áreas infectados con vendajes impermeables.
Practique una buena higiene, lavándose las manos regularmente con agua y jabón.
No permita que otras personas toquen sus bultos, cortes, áreas infectadas o vendajes.
Infestación por oxiuro Lavarse las manos con agua tibia y jabón después de ir al baño y cambiar pañales, y antes de manejar alimentos es la mejor forma de prevenir la infestación por oxiuro en sitios acuáticos recreativos.
Recursos Acerca del SARM Acerca del oxiuro EN ESTA PÁGINA Exposición Medidas y estrategias de prevención Recursos PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Prevenir las enfermedades diarreicas Cómo prevenir la foliculitis del jacuzzi o sarpullido de la bañera de hidromasaje Cómo prevenir el oído de nadador Protégete de la legionela en los jacuzzis Prevenir irritación de ojos VER TODO Healthy Swimming Nadar de manera saludable y segura FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Immediate Closures and Violations Identified During Routine Inspections of Public Aquatic Facilities — Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, Five States, 2013 Surveillance Summaries / May 20, 2016 / 65(5);1–26 Print Michele C.
Hlavsa, MPH1; Taryn R.
Gerth, MPH1; Sarah A.
Collier, MPH1; Elizabeth L.
Dunbar, MPH1,2; Gouthami Rao, MPH1; Gregory Epperson3; Becky Bramlett4; David F.
Ludwig, MPH5; Diana Gomez, MPH6; Monty M.
Stansbury6; Freeman Miller6; Jeffrey Warren7; Jim Nichol8; Harry Bowman8,*; Bao-An Huynh, MPH9; Kara M.
Loewe10; Bob Vincent10; Amanda L.
Tarrier, MPH11; Timothy Shay11; Robert Wright12; Allison C.
Brown, PhD1; Jasen M.
Kunz, MPH13; Kathleen E.
Fullerton, MPH1; James R.
Cope, PhD14; Michael J.
These conditions affect persons of all ages, particularly young children, and can lead to disability or even death.
A total of 650 aquatic facility–associated outbreaks have been reported to CDC for 1978–2012.
During 1999–2010, drownings resulted in approximately 4,000 deaths each year in the United States.
Drowning is the leading cause of injury deaths in children aged 1–4 years, and approximately half of fatal drownings in this age group occur in swimming pools.
During 2003–2012, pool chemical–associated health events resulted in an estimated 3,000–5,000 visits to U.S.
In August 2014, CDC released the Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC), national guidance that can be adopted voluntarily by state and local jurisdictions to minimize the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
Reporting Period Covered: 2013.
Description of System: The Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance (NAFIS) was established by CDC in 2013.
NAFIS receives aquatic facility inspection data collected by environmental health practitioners when assessing the operation and maintenance of public aquatic facilities.
This report presents inspection data that were reported by 16 public health agencies in five states (Arizona, California, Florida, New York, and Texas) and focuses on 15 MAHC elements deemed critical to minimizing the risk for illness and injury associated with aquatic facilities (e.g., disinfection to prevent transmission of infectious pathogens, safety equipment to rescue distressed bathers, and pool chemical safety).
Although these data (the first and most recent that are available) are not nationally representative, 15.7% of the estimated 309,000 U.S.
public aquatic venues are located in the 16 reporting jurisdictions.
Results: During 2013, environmental health practitioners in the 16 reporting NAFIS jurisdictions conducted 84,187 routine inspections of 48,632 public aquatic venues.
Of the 84,187 routine inspection records for individual aquatic venues, 78.5% (66,098) included data on immediate closure; 12.3% (8,118) of routine inspections resulted in immediate closure because of at least one identified violation that represented a serious threat to public health.
Disinfectant concentration violations were identified during 11.9% (7,662/64,580) of routine inspections, representing risk for aquatic facility–associated outbreaks of infectious etiology.
Safety equipment violations were identified during 12.7% (7,845/61,648) of routine inspections, representing risk for drowning.
Pool chemical safety violations were identified during 4.6% (471/10,264) of routine inspections, representing risk for pool chemical–associated health events.
Interpretation: Routine inspections frequently resulted in immediate closure and identified violations of inspection items corresponding to 15 MAHC elements critical to protecting public health, highlighting the need to improve operation and maintenance of U.S.
public aquatic facilities.
These findings also underscore the public health function that code enforcement, conducted by environmental health practitioners, has in preventing illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
Public Health Action: Findings from the routine analyses of aquatic facility inspection data can inform program planning, implementation, and evaluation.
At the state and local level, these inspection data can be used to identify aquatic facilities and venues in need of more frequent inspections and to select topics to cover in training for aquatic facility operators.
At the national level, these data can be used to evaluate whether the adoption of MAHC elements minimizes the risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
These findings also can be used to prioritize revisions or updates to the MAHC.
To optimize the collection and analysis of aquatic facility inspection data and thus application of findings, environmental health practitioners and epidemiologists need to collaborate extensively to identify public aquatic facility code elements deemed critical to protecting public health and determine the best way to assess and document compliance during inspections.
Top Introduction Illness and injury associated with aquatic facilities† in the United States include disease outbreaks of infectious or chemical etiology, drowning, and pool chemical§–associated health events (e.g., respiratory distress or burns).
These conditions affect persons of all ages, particularly young children, and can lead to disability or even death.
Construction of public aquatic facilities for swimming, play, and relaxation increased in the United States throughout the 20th century as water treatment technology advanced (1).
In 2009, swimming was the fourth most popular sports activity in the United States and the most popular among children aged 7–17 years; an estimated 50,226,000 persons aged ≥7 years swam at least six times in 2009, translating to at least 301,356,000¶ swimming instances (2).
Aquatic sector marketing data indicate that there were an estimated 309,000 public aquatic venues** throughout the United States in 2011 (3).
Public aquatic facilities also have increased in size, accommodating tens of thousands of bathers per day, and have moved indoors, making swimming, play, and relaxation in aquatic venues possible year round instead of being limited to the warmer months.
Moreover, with design innovations, aquatic venues have simultaneously evolved from being traditional rectangular pools to pools of various designs (e.g., interactive water play venues††) and to include venues other than pools (e.g., hot tubs/spas).
Water-based physical activity improves physical and mental health throughout life (4) and might be the only physical activity option for those with medical restrictions.
However, participants in such activities are at risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
The overriding public health goal is to maximize the health benefits of water-based physical activities while minimizing the risk for illness and injury.
Surveillance data are used to characterize the epidemiology of illness and injury at aquatic facilities (i.e., estimate magnitude, document distribution, and track natural history) and inform and evaluate prevention efforts (5).
Existing national surveillance systems monitor the following subcategories of aquatic facility–associated illnesses and injuries: aquatic facility–associated outbreaks,§§ drownings, and pool chemical–associated health events.
Existing National Surveillance Systems Monitoring Aquatic Facility–Associated Illness and Injury Since 1978, CDC has tracked aquatic facility–associated outbreaks via the Waterborne Disease and Outbreak Surveillance System (WBDOSS) (
An aquatic facility–associated outbreak is defined as the occurrence of similar illness in two or more persons, epidemiologically linked by location and time of exposure to recreational water or to recreational water–associated chemicals volatilized or aerosolized into the air surrounding the water.
During 1978–2012, a total of 650 aquatic facility–associated outbreaks were reported to CDC (Figure).
Although these reported data likely represent only a fraction of outbreaks that occurred,¶¶ national outbreak data can be used to detect changes in the epidemiology of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks, including novel aquatic venues, emerging infectious pathogens, and the shift to indoor settings.
For example, these data indicate that a spike in the incidence of outbreaks of Pseudomonas folliculitis associated with hot tubs/spas occurred in the early 1980s, when hot tubs/spas became popular but before operation and maintenance standards could be established in jurisdictions across the United States.
In 1988, the first U.S.
aquatic facility–associated outbreak of cryptosporidiosis was detected (6,7).
Since then, the annual incidence of such reported outbreaks has increased substantially, and Cryptosporidium, the parasite that causes cryptosporidiosis, has emerged as the leading etiology of reported aquatic facility–associated outbreaks because of its extreme chlorine tolerance (8).
Moreover, a focal cryptosporidiosis outbreak associated with one aquatic facility can expand into a community-wide outbreak that is associated with hundreds of aquatic facilities, affects thousands of persons (disproportionately young children), and spreads to other additional settings (e.g., child care facilities) (9).
With the proliferation of indoor waterparks in recent years, CDC has increasingly received reports of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks involving indoor settings (8).
The largest such outbreak to date, which occurred in Ohio in 2007, affected at least 665 persons and was caused by volatile disinfection by-products called chloramines (10).
Dichloramine and trichloramine are created when chlorine oxidizes nitrogenous compounds (e.g., human waste products such as sweat and urine).
Unlike monochloramine, which is commonly used to disinfect drinking water, these chloramines can cause ocular and respiratory tract irritation.
Limiting the amounts of fresh air introduced and of chloramine-polluted air exhausted, particularly during colder months, increases these health effects.
Mortality data from CDC’s National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) ( for 1999–2010 indicate that approximately 4,000 persons die from drowning each year in the United States (11).
Drowning is the leading cause of injury death in children aged 1–4 years; more than half of fatal drownings in this age group occur in a pool.
Nonfatal drownings annually lead to an average of approximately 5,800 U.S.
emergency department (ED) visits (2005–2009) (12).
More than half of the patients are children aged ≤4 years, and nearly two thirds of the nonfatal drownings in this age group occurred in pools.
Half of nonfatal drownings require hospitalization and can result in severe brain damage, long-term mental and physical disabilities, and substantial health care costs.
In 2007, the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) asked CDC to monitor health events associated with pool chemicals (Doug Sackett, personal communication, 2007).
Since then, CDC’s WBDOSS has received additional reports from New York and from other states of outbreaks caused by exposure to toxic chlorine gas.
Toxic chlorine gas can be generated when chlorine and acid, which is typically used to adjust pH, are mixed by aquatics staff or in an aquatic venue’s plumbing when there is inadequate water flow.
Data from the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission’s National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) ( ) for 2003–2012 indicate that pool chemical–associated health events annually lead to approximately 3,000–5,000 visits to U.S.
The most frequent diagnosis is poisoning (predominantly stemming from inhalation of vapors, fumes, or gases rather than ingestion) followed by dermatitis or conjunctivitis caused by chemical splashes onto the skin or into the eyes, respectively.
In addition, CDC’s Sentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risk data have been used to examine pool chemical–associated health events from an occupational health perspective (16), and data from ATSDR’s Hazardous Substances Emergency Events Surveillance program*** have been used to examine health events resulting from chemical spills (17).
The Model Aquatic Health Code and the Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance During 2007–2014, CDC and NYSDOH led a national consortium of public health and aquatics sector experts to develop the Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC), national guidance that can be voluntarily adopted by state and local jurisdictions to minimize the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
The development of the MAHC is described elsewhere (Appendix B).
In August 2014, CDC released the first edition of the MAHC ( which covers a full range of issues pertaining to aquatic facilities, including their design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management.
The penultimate draft of the MAHC enabled CDC to launch, in 2013, the Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance (NAFIS), which established for the first time an ongoing multijurisdictional surveillance network for aquatic facility inspection data.
Data are needed so public health authorities can evaluate whether adoption of MAHC elements minimizes the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
However, decreases in the incidence of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks, drowning, and pool chemical–associated health events attributable to adoption of MAHC design and construction elements might not be detected by existing national surveillance systems for decades.
Long periods of time are likely to elapse between the writing, enactment, implementation, and enforcement of MAHC elements in a given jurisdiction and across the United States.
The time to adoption and the number, if any, of MAHC elements adopted will vary across jurisdictions.
Most importantly, many design and operation elements apply only to newly constructed or substantially altered aquatic facilities.
Inspections of public aquatic facilities allow a real-time assessment of their operation and maintenance, and environmental health practitioners document their inspection findings using a standardized form.
Analysis of inspection data can be used to examine immediate closures and violations (i.e., inspection-outcome data) to estimate magnitude, document distribution, track natural history, and inform and evaluate prevention efforts (5).
Because improper operation and maintenance represent risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury, NAFIS data can be used to evaluate whether adoption of MAHC elements minimizes risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities more immediately (i.e., within years of the release of the MAHC first edition) than existing national surveillance systems.
Top Methods The primary objective of NAFIS is to enable public health authorities to evaluate whether adoption of MAHC elements minimizes the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
The secondary objective is to demonstrate the utility of inspection data and thus expand their use by state and local environmental health programs to monitor the operation and maintenance of public aquatic facilities and inform program planning, implementation, and evaluation.
Inspection of public aquatic facilities (e.g., forms used, items inspected, and inspection methods) varies across jurisdictions because individual state and local jurisdictions write, enact, implement, and enforce their own unique public health codes.
Five states (Arizona, California, Florida, New York, and Texas) with the highest estimated counts of public aquatic venues were selected; 39.6% (122,412) of the estimated 309,000 U.S.
public aquatic venues are located in these five states (3).
CDC invited local jurisdictions (county or city) from these five states to participate in NAFIS.
A total of 25 local jurisdictions agreed to report data annually to CDC, but only 16 reported 2013 data to NAFIS by September 2015.
Catchment Area Public aquatic facility codes can vary among states and within states (i.e., counties and cities in the same state might have different codes).
Florida and New York have statewide public aquatic facility codes; Arizona and California codes vary by county.
CDC invited the five counties with the highest counts of public aquatic venues (as per state public health officials in each of the four respective states) to participate in NAFIS.
If a county in a given state could not, the county with the sixth highest count of public aquatic venues in that state was invited.
Texas public aquatic facility codes can vary within a county, and CDC invited the five most populous cities as determined by 2013 census data to participate in NAFIS (18).
If one of these Texas cities could not, the sixth most populous Texas city was invited.
The five counties with the highest counts of public aquatic venues in California and Florida, five of the six counties with the highest counts of public aquatic venues in Arizona and New York, and five of the six most populous Texas cities agreed to annually report data to NAFIS.
By September 11, 2015, the publication cut-off date, 16 (64%) jurisdictions reported 2013 data to NAFIS (Table 1).
The remaining nine (36%) jurisdictions did not report data because three jurisdictions were unable to access data, three were unable to extract data sets (i.e., all records) by the cut-off date, two did not have electronic data for 2013, and one did not respond.
Data Source and Collection The launch of NAFIS began with the selection of elements for surveillance.
CDC reviewed draft MAHC guidance before it was finalized and released in 2014 and identified approximately 50 MAHC illness and injury risk-minimizing elements that protect public health.
Because of the variability in codes and inspection data collected, CDC limited NAFIS’s initial list of MAHC elements for surveillance to the 15 elements deemed critical to minimizing the risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury (Table 2) and most likely to be included in inspections in these jurisdictions (Table 1).
Identifying violations of inspection items corresponding to these 15 critical elements could result in immediate closure because these violations represent a serious threat to public health.
Inspection of a Public Aquatic Facility An inspection of a public aquatic facility is an assessment of whether its operation and maintenance meet the standards set in the jurisdiction’s public health code and provides a real-time snapshot of whether the facility is being operated and maintained in a way that minimizes risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
There are three types of inspections: routine, complaint, and follow-up.
Routine inspections are conducted one to three times per year (primarily during the warmer months) and typically result in the completion of an entire inspection form to document the findings of a full assessment of the operation and maintenance of a public aquatic facility.
Complaint inspections are conducted in response to a specific complaint (e.g., from a bather).
Follow-up inspections are conducted to ensure that violations that were identified during previous inspections and that resulted in immediate closure have been corrected before reopening.
Environmental health practitioners conduct inspections of an entire public aquatic facility, and a separate inspection report or record documents the assessment of each aquatic venue within the public aquatic facility.
If an item is inspected and found not to be in compliance with the code, a violation has been identified; violations represent risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
Ideally, the inspection items with the greatest impact on public health are prioritized and identification of corresponding violations could result in immediate closure.
Priority inspection items include measuring free available chlorine and pH to ascertain whether they are within the required range; confirming that the fencing, walls, and self-closing and self-latching gates and doors are in good repair; and checking that the pool chemicals have labels required by either the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency and are safely and securely stored.
Data Standardization and Analysis Initially, jurisdictions sent their inspection forms and public aquatic facility codes to CDC for review.
CDC sent back, for discussion, a proposed list of inspection items that corresponded to the 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing MAHC elements.
A jurisdiction’s list of elements was not considered finalized until it was approved by the jurisdiction.
Because codes, and thus, inspection forms, items inspected, and even how the same aspect of public aquatic facility operation and maintenance is inspected vary across jurisdictions, identified violations were specific to each jurisdiction and not to an overall standard.
Reporting jurisdictions submitted an electronic data set with their 2013 aquatic facility inspection data.
Only data from routine inspections were analyzed because unlike routine inspections, complaint and follow-up inspections typically focus on a subset of inspection items and do not result in a full assessment of the operation and maintenance of a public aquatic facility (i.e., the entire inspection form would not be completed to document inspection findings).
Including data collected during complaint and follow-up inspections, in the analysis, could result in underestimates of the proportions of inspections that resulted in immediate closure or that identified violations.
SAS 9.3 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, North Carolina) was used to reformat, standardize, and analyze data sets.
Data sets were reformatted, as needed.
For example, a data set, in which each record was an individual identified violation, was restructured into a data set, in which each record was for an inspection and included data on compliance status of multiple inspection items.
If a violation was not documented for a specific inspection item, the inspection item was assumed to have been found to be in compliance (i.e., not in violation).
Variable names and their respective values were standardized across data sets.
Previous analysis of aquatic facility inspection data (19) indicated that these data sets do not typically include data on aquatic facility setting (e.g., apartment/condominium, hotel/motel, and waterpark).
Therefore, CDC developed an algorithm to identify aquatic facility setting, using aquatic facility name.
The setting algorithm used the following terms to create the setting variable: 1) “apt,” “apartment,” “condo,” “HOA,” “townhouse,” “townhome,” and “home” for the category apartment/condominium; 2) “campground” and “camp” for the category campground (e.g., campsite)/camp (e.g., summer camp or day camp); 3) “child care,” “day care,” “childcare,” and “daycare” for the category childcare; 4) “hospital,” “rehab,” “outpatient,” “medical,” “nursing,” and “assisted living facility” for the category hospital; 5) “hotel,” “motel,” “inn,” “suites,” “extended stay,” “bed and breakfast,” “hostel,” and the names of large hospitality industry chains for the category hotel/motel; 6) “fitness,” “gym,” “country club,” “athletic,” “swim school,” “YMCA,” and “sports center” for the category membership club; 7) “community” and “municipal” for the category municipal; 8) “university” and “college” for the category school/university; and 9) “waterpark” and “water park” for the category waterpark.
The setting algorithm was coded so that once the setting was classified by SAS, subsequent terms in the algorithm did not trigger a reclassification of the setting.
After assigning a setting variable, aquatic facility name was deleted.
A summary of findings was reported to each jurisdiction; data were not considered finalized until approved by the jurisdiction.
Subsequently, the 16 individual data sets were then concatenated into one final data set.
Analyses included counts of routine inspections; median and range of counts of any violations identified per routine inspection; and proportions of routine inspections that identified at least one violation, resulted in immediate closure, or identified violations when inspecting items corresponding to the 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing MAHC elements.
Analyses were conducted of the data overall and stratified by aquatic venue type (e.g., pool and hot tub/spa) and pool category (e.g., wading pool and interactive water play venue).
The denominators in this report vary because of differences in the number of jurisdictions contributing inspection data (Table 2).
Top Results Among the 16 NAFIS jurisdictions that provided data, nine (56%) reported aquatic facility inspection data that included both immediate closure and violation data, five (31%) reported only violation data, and two (13%) reported only immediate closure data.
One (6%) jurisdiction included data that identified violation(s) leading to immediate closure.
The number of jurisdictions contributing data to examine each critical element varied substantially, with no single jurisdiction contributing data to examine all 15 critical elements (Table 2).
Use of the setting algorithm increased the number of inspection records with setting data; however, after the setting algorithm was run, 75.6% (42,249/55,913) of pool and 84.2% (17,213/20,449) of hot tub/spa inspection records still were missing aquatic facility setting data, thus no analyses stratified by setting were conducted.
During 2013, environmental health practitioners in the 16 NAFIS jurisdictions that reported data to CDC conducted 84,187 routine inspections of 48,632 public aquatic venues (Table 1).
This corresponds to 15.7% of the estimated 309,000 venues in the United States.
The median number of violations identified per inspection was two (range: 0–21).
Of the 84,187 routine inspection records, 78.5% (66,098) included data on immediate closure; 12.3% (8,118) of routine inspections resulted in immediate closure (Table 3).
Of the total 84,187 routine inspections, 55,913 (66.4%) were of public pools.
Of 43,636 routine pool inspections, 11.8% (5,139) resulted in immediate closure.
Violations representing risk for pool chemical–associated health events (i.e., labeling, storage, or security of pool chemicals) were identified during 18.1% (427/2,358) of routine pool inspections.
Of the total 84,187 routine inspections, 20,449 (24.3%) were of public hot tubs/spas.
Of 14,637 routine hot tub/spa inspections, 15.1% (2,217) resulted in immediate closure.
Of 948 routine inspections of wading pools, 21.6% (205) resulted in immediate closure (Table 4).
Of 66 routine inspections of interactive water play venues, 12.1% (eight) resulted in immediate closure.
Top Discussion This report is the first to summarize data from NAFIS; 15.7% of the estimated 309,000 U.S.
public aquatic venues are located in the 16 reporting jurisdictions.
The findings of this report underscore the need to improve the operation and maintenance of U.S.
public aquatic facilities to prevent illness and injury, as more than three quarters (78.9%) of routine inspections of public aquatic venues identified at least one violation.
Multiple reports have previously examined data collected during inspections of U.S.
public aquatic facilities with similar results, including analyses of 1961–1963 data from DuPage County, Illinois (20), 1999–2007 data from Plano, Texas (21), and 2005–2006 data from Nebraska (22).
Three additional reports examined data collected during routine inspections of public aquatic facilities conducted in 2002 and 2008 in multiple jurisdictions across the United States (Table 5) (19,23,24).
All of these reports also found that violations of public health codes are identified frequently and immediate closures of public aquatic venues frequently occur.
Of note, 12.3% of routine inspections (11.8% of pools and 15.1% of hot tubs/spas) resulted in immediate closure and violations of inspection items that corresponded to the 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing MAHC elements were identified frequently (Table 3) (Table 4).
These findings underscore the public health function that code enforcement, conducted by environmental health practitioners, plays in preventing illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
During inspections, environmental health practitioners can serve as illness-and-injury-prevention advisors to aquatic facility operators.
Immediate closures and identified violations offer an opportunity to educate operators about how to properly operate and maintain aquatic facilities and why these measures are necessary, to prevent repeated violations of a given operation or maintenance standard in public aquatic facility codes.
Currently, only 68% of U.S.
local public health agencies regulate, inspect, or license public aquatic facilities (25).
Minimizing Risk for Aquatic Facility–Associated Outbreaks of Infectious Etiology In aquatic facilities, halogenation (e.g., chlorination or bromination) is the primary barrier to the transmission of infectious pathogens; proper pH ensures that the more active form of the halogen is available to inactivate infectious pathogens, and the automated chemical feeder delivers the halogen and pH-adjusting chemical.
††† Outbreaks of acute gastrointestinal illness caused by halogen-susceptible pathogens do not occur unless the disinfectant concentration is inadequate; pH is improper; the automated chemical feeder is in poor condition or inoperable; or an operator error has occurred.
Environmental health practitioners in the 16 reporting NAFIS jurisdictions identified disinfectant concentration, pH, and automated chemical feeder violations during 11.9%, 14.9%, and 5.2% of all inspections, respectively.
These findings are corroborated by national data on outbreaks of infectious etiology; during 2003–2012, halogen-susceptible pathogens caused 15.2–20.2% of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks of acute gastrointestinal illness.§§§ Transmission of halogen-susceptible infectious pathogens (e.g., E.
To minimize the incidence of disinfectant concentration and pH violations, aquatic facility operators (MAHC 6.3.1.1) should complete a training course (MAHC 6.1.1.1) (22,26) that covers water disinfection and chemistry, mechanical systems (including automated chemical feeders), and other risk management strategies (MAHC 6.1.2).
Disinfectant concentration and pH violations were frequently documented at wading pools and interactive water play venues.
Both of these aquatic venue types have features that make it more difficult to maintain halogen levels: wading pools are typically shallow, which facilitates halogen depletion by the sun’s ultraviolet light, and interactive water play venues typically aerosolize the water, which depletes halogens.
Wading pools and interactive water play venues are designed and intended for young children.
Young children are more likely to experience acute gastrointestinal illnesses, such as cryptosporidiosis (caused by the extremely halogen-tolerant Cryptosporidium) (27–29), and are more likely to contaminate the water because they either are incontinent or have inadequate toileting and hygiene skills.
Contamination can occur via direct release of formed or diarrheal feces (30), or as much as 10 grams of fecal material can rinse off a young child’s perianal surface and into the water (31).
Furthermore, swim diapers do not prevent feces, urine, or infectious pathogens from contaminating the water (32); and oxidation of organic or nitrogenous compounds (e.g., feces and urine) released or rinsed into the water deplete the halogen.
In addition, young children typically ingest more recreational water than adults (33), putting them at increased risk for infection if pathogens are present.
Consequently, maintaining proper disinfectant concentration and pH, combined with effective control of the automated chemical feeder, is particularly critical in these aquatic venues.
Disinfectant concentration and pH violations were also frequently documented at hot tubs/spas.
Maintaining adequate disinfectant concentration in hot tubs/spas can be particularly difficult, because the halogen can be depleted by both the higher water temperatures and aerosolization of water by jets.
Moreover, thermophilic infectious pathogens, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Legionella spp., can colonize and amplify in hot tubs/spas in which the disinfectant concentration is inadequately maintained (34,35), leading to biofilm build-up that can protect these pathogens from disinfectants, even when adequate disinfectant concentration is maintained (36).
During 2003–2012, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Legionella spp.
were confirmed or suspected to have caused 77 hot tub–/spa-associated outbreaks (8,15,37–39).
In addition, because cyanuric acid (which prevents halogen depletion by the sun’s ultraviolet light) increases inactivation times of infectious pathogens (40–43), cyanuric acid should not be used in hot tubs/spas (MAHC 5.7.3.1.3.1).
Debris and organic materials (which deplete halogens) and biofilm should be removed from the water and accessible surfaces of hot tubs/spas (MAHC 5.6.10.6.1) and there should be more frequent draining and cleaning of hot tubs/spas than other aquatic venues (MAHC 5.12.7.2).
Finally, aquatic facility operators or responsible supervisors should conduct routine checks, in part to ensure biofilm has been removed from accessible surfaces, prior to facility opening (MAHC 6.4.1.3.1).
Minimizing Risk for Drowning, Pool Chemical–Associated Health Events, and Other Injuries Maintaining enclosures (e.g., fencing, walls, and self-closing and self-latching gates and doors) (44) and safety equipment (e.g., hook or ring) at aquatic facilities minimizes the risk for drowning.
Violations of these safety measures were documented by environmental health practitioners during 5.7% and 16.6%, respectively, of routine pool inspections.
Enclosures should be maintained at all times (MAHC 5.6.10.5.1) and newly constructed or substantially altered aquatic facilities should have 6-foot fences (MAHC 4.8.6.2.4.2) and fencing mesh with no greater than a 1.75-inch opening to minimize scalability by young children (MAHC 4.8.6.2.1.2).
Routine checks to ensure safety equipment is in place and in good repair should be conducted prior to facility opening (MAHC 6.4.1.3.1); if all required equipment is not present, the venue should be immediately closed (MAHC 6.6.3.1).
Bather surveillance by trained lifeguards is another strategy to minimize the risk for drowning, but drowning can occur even in the presence of lifeguards (45).
Lifeguard staffing should include clear and unobstructed zones of surveillance, and lifeguard staffing numbers should be based on the number of zones needed to have 100% unobstructed vision of the entire aquatic venue (MAHC 6.3.3.1.1, 6.3.3.1.2, and 6.3.3.1.3).
To help minimize the risk for main drain–associated entrapment,**** aquatic facility operator training should include the requirements of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act (MAHC 6.1.2.1.4.7).
Risk for pool chemical–associated health events can be minimized through proper pool chemical labeling, storage, and security.
Violations of this critical element were documented by environmental health practitioners during 18.1% and 9.9% of routine inspections of pools and hot tubs/spas, respectively.
Data reported elsewhere indicate that 87% (27/31) of reported pool chemical–associated health events resulted from mixing incompatible chemicals, and 69% (25/36) of pool chemical–associated health events were caused by poor chemical storage or handling practices (14).
Safe chemical storage practices include preventing access by unauthorized persons, such as children (MAHC 5.9.1.4); safe chemical handling practices include adding a concentrated pool chemical to water when diluting and not vice versa to prevent splashing of the concentrated chemical, potentially explosive reactions, and release of toxic chlorine gas (MAHC 5.9.2.4.2.1).
Exposure to chemical vapors, fumes, or gases should be minimized by ensuring there is no air movement from the chemical storage area into any other interior space of a building intended for occupation (MAHC 4.9.2.6.1).
Finally, when the recirculation pump shuts down or fails to generate adequate flow but the automated chemical feeder pumps continue to inject concentrated chlorine and acid into the water, the mixing of concentrated chemicals produces toxic chlorine gas.
Restarting the recirculation pump then vents the toxic chlorine gas from the venue plumbing and into the aquatic venue.
To prevent this from happening, an electrical interlock should be installed between the automated chemical feeders, the recirculation pumps, and water flow meter/flow switch to shut down automated chemical feeder pumps if the recirculation pumps shut down or there is inadequate water flow in the venue plumbing (MAHC 4.7.3.2.1.3).
Violations related to water temperature were documented during 7.5% of routine inspections of hot tubs/spas.
Sitting in high temperature water for a prolonged time essentially mimics fever and poses a risk for hyperthermia in vulnerable persons.
For example, young children are still developing the ability to regulate body temperature, and body temperature regulation is especially difficult for infants given their small body mass relative to their body surface area.
In addition, data suggest that hot tub/spa use by pregnant women, particularly in the first trimester, might be associated with birth defects (46,47).
To minimize the risk for injury related to water temperature, the water temperature should not exceed 104° F (40° C) (MAHC 5.7.4.7.2).
Aquatic facility operators might consider providing accurate thermometers that allow bathers to easily check the hot tub/spa water temperature before entering.
Improving the Collection and Storage of Aquatic Facility Inspection Data The process of submitting, reformatting, standardizing, and analyzing 2013 NAFIS data highlighted several areas where the collection and storage of aquatic facility inspection data could be improved.
First, data on aquatic facility setting (e.g., apartment/condominium, hotel/motel, and waterpark) were not included in most submitted data sets and pool category (e.g., wading pool and interactive water play venue) for almost all inspected pools was designated as “pool” instead of a specific type of pool.
This precluded the characterization of the distribution of immediate closures and violations by aquatic facility setting and limited characterization by pool category.
Collecting aquatic facility setting, aquatic venue type, and pool category data enable identification of increased-risk settings, aquatic venue types, and pool categories.
Second, data on quantitative results of water quality testing conducted during inspections were not collected or submitted, limiting the interpretation of disinfectant concentration and pH violation data.
Quantitative results of water quality testing are particularly useful when there are different public health implications related to upper and lower limits of mandated water quality parameters.
For example, as pH decreases below 7.2, disinfection effectiveness increases because more of the active form of the halogen (e.g., hypochlorous acid) is formed; however, as pH decreases below 7.2, bathers are increasingly likely to experience skin and eye irritation and the aquatic venue plumbing is more likely to corrode.
Alternatively, as pH increases above 7.8, disinfection effectiveness decreases (because less of the active form of the halogen is available for disinfection), and bathers are again increasingly likely to experience skin and eye irritation.
Third, data for which specific inspection items resulted in immediate closures were submitted by only one jurisdiction; these data enable more in-depth characterization of immediate closures and identification of operator training needs.
The structure of inspection forms and design of the electronic databases can also be optimized to facilitate analysis.
For 10 (67%) of 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing MAHC elements (Table 2), at least one NAFIS jurisdiction combined data on multiple inspection items.
While this practice expedites data collection and entry and limits data storage needs, it precludes analysis of individual inspection items and leads to an underestimate of the total number of identified violations.
Assessing and documenting findings for individual inspection items enables a more comprehensive picture of the operation and maintenance of public aquatic venues.
Additionally, structuring databases to efficiently document whether each individual inspection item was in compliance, in violation, or not inspected, could allow for the inclusion of complaint and follow-up inspection data in analyses.
Finally, nine (36%) NAFIS jurisdictions could not participate in this report.
Not all NAFIS jurisdictions had electronic data, and among those that did have electronic data, not all could readily access or retrieve their data in time to collaborate on this report.
CDC has developed two resources to help optimize the collection and analysis of aquatic facility inspection data: a draft model inspection form ( which includes approximately 50 MAHC illness and injury risk-minimizing elements that protect public health, and a set of recommendations to improve data collection and database construction (
Top Future Directions To optimize the analysis and collection of aquatic facility inspection data, and thus the application of findings, a collaboration of federal, state, and local partners from different disciplines is needed and should include environmental health practitioners with technical knowledge about the operation and maintenance of public aquatic facilities and with inspection experience, epidemiologists skilled in conducting surveillance and data analysis, and information technology specialists with expertise in database construction.
This collaboration could provide input on identifying public aquatic facility code elements deemed critical to protecting public health and on the creation of needed resources (e.g., standard inspection forms, training for inspectors, criteria for the construction of databases, and tools to analyze data).
The Council for the Model Aquatic Health Code (CMAHC;  ), a national clearinghouse for MAHC change requests that are relayed back to CDC (Appendix B), could facilitate this collaboration and development of resources.
This collaboration could, to some degree, standardize data across jurisdictions, including jurisdictions participating in NAFIS.
This would enable cross-jurisdictional comparisons, further elucidating the epidemiology of immediate closures and violations of public aquatic facility codes and enabling sharing of environmental health aquatic inspection program lessons learned.
Additionally, analysis of NAFIS data can also be used to prioritize revisions or updates to the MAHC itself.
The CMAHC-facilitated collaboration could also serve as a model for the creation of multidisciplinary teams within state or local jurisdictions.
These teams could adapt resources as needed for their individual state or local jurisdictions.
This team-based approach would increase state and local capacity to use data to inform environmental health aquatic inspection program planning, implementation, and evaluation.
Beyond optimizing aquatic facility inspection data for surveillance at the local, state, and multijurisdictional level, these principles can be applied to data collected by other state and local environmental health inspection programs, including those focused on food service establishments and childcare settings.
Top Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, these data are not generalizable to U.S.
public aquatic facilities and venues nationwide.
Second, the number of public aquatic venues inspected and the frequency of routine inspections differs by jurisdiction; thus, some jurisdictions (e.g., Maricopa County in Arizona and Orange County in California) contributed a higher proportion of inspection records to this analysis than other jurisdictions.
Finally, the variability in public health codes, and thus in inspection forms, items inspected, and how the same aspect of public aquatic facility operation and maintenance is inspected across jurisdictions limited data analysis (i.e., violations were specific to each jurisdiction and not to an overall standard).
Top Conclusion With an estimated 15.7% of U.S.
public aquatic venues under surveillance, NAFIS is the first ongoing multijurisdictional surveillance network to use aquatic facility inspection data to monitor the operation and maintenance of public aquatic facilities in the United States.
The findings of this report and others (19,23,24), while not directly comparable, are similar: operation and maintenance violations and consequent immediate closures of U.S.
public aquatic venues frequently occur.
The findings of this report also demonstrate the utility of aquatic facility inspection data; highlight the potential of these data to inform state and local environmental health aquatic inspection program planning, implementation, and evaluation; and underscore the public health function that code enforcement, conducted by environmental health practitioners, plays in preventing illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
For the aquatics sector and public health to continue to minimize the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic facilities, the following measures are recommended: 1) expanded use of inspection data to inform state and local environmental health aquatic inspection program planning, implementation, and evaluation and 2) broad participation in CMAHC to keep the MAHC current and up to date.
Adoption, implementation, and enforcement of the MAHC elements in jurisdictions across the United States could help minimize illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
Collaboration among environmental health practitioners, epidemiologists, and IT specialists nationally and within individual state and local jurisdictions is essential to optimizing aquatic facility inspection data collection and evaluating whether the adoption of MAHC elements minimizes illness and injury at public aquatic facilities.
Top Acknowledgments Rob Blake, Division of Emergency and Environmental Health Services, National Center for Environmental Health, CDC; Matthew Penn, Montrece Ransom, Stacie Close, Julia Charles, Public Health Law Office, Office for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support, CDC; Blanca Caballero, Arizona Department of Health Services; Joyce Tuttle, California Department of Public Health; Katie Moore, Texas Department of State Health Services.
Top Corresponding author: Michele Hlavsa, Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infections Diseases, CDC.
E-mail: acz3@cdc.gov.
Telephone: 404-718-4695.
Top 1Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infections Diseases, CDC; 2CDC/Association of Schools of Public Health Fellow, CDC; 3Maricopa County Environmental Services Department, Arizona; 4Mohave County Department of Public Health, Environmental Health Division, Arizona; 5Pima County Health Department, Arizona; 6Yuma County Environmental Health Services Division, Arizona; 7Orange County Environmental Health Division, California; 8San Bernardino County Division of Environmental Health Services, California; 9San Diego County Department of Environmental Health, California; 10Florida Department of Health; 11New York State Department of Health; 12Division of Environmental Health Services, Department of Health and Human Services, Austin, Texas; 13Division of Emergency and Environmental Health Services, National Center for Environmental Health, CDC; 14Division of Global Health Protection, Center for Global Health, CDC Top References Wiltse J.
Contested waters: a social history of swimming pools in America.
Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press; 2007.
US Census Bureau.
Statistical abstract of the United States: arts, recreation, and travel: participation in selected sports activities.
Washington, DC: US Department of Commerce, US Census Bureau; 2012.
 Data PK.
swimming pool and hot tub market, Duluth, GA: Data PK Inc.; 2011.
Health benefits of water-based exercise.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2013.
 Teutsch SM.
Considerations in planning a surveillance system.
In: Lee L, Teutsch SM, Thacker SB.
Principles and practice of public health surveillance.
New York, NY: Oxford University Press; 2000.
Swimming-associated cryptosporidiosis—Los Angeles County.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 1990;39:343–5.
Sorvillo FJ, Fujioka K, Nahlen B, Tormey MP, Kebabjian R, Mascola L.
Swimming-associated cryptosporidiosis.
Am J Public Health 1992;82:742–4.
CrossRef Hlavsa MC, Roberts VA, Kahler AM, et al.
Outbreaks of illness associated with recreational water—United States, 2011–2012.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2015;64:668–72.
Communitywide cryptosporidiosis outbreak—Utah, 2007.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2008;57:989–93.
Respiratory and ocular symptoms among employees of a hotel indoor waterpark resort—Ohio, 2007.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:81–5.
Unintentional drowning deaths in the United States, 1999–2010.
NCHS Data Brief 2014;149:1–8.
Drowning—United States, 2005–2009.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2012;61:344–7.
Hlavsa MC, Robinson TJ, Collier SA, Beach MJ.
Pool chemical–associated health events in public and residential settings—United States, 2003–2012, and Minnesota, 2013.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2014;63:427–30.
Pool chemical-associated health events in public and residential settings—United States, 1983–2007.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:489–93.
Hlavsa MC, Roberts VA, Anderson AR, et al.
Surveillance for waterborne disease outbreaks and other health events associated with recreational water—United States, 2007–2008.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2011;60:1–32.
Acute illness and injury from swimming pool disinfectants and other chemicals—United States, 2002–2008.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60:1343–7.
Anderson AR, Welles WL, Drew J, Orr MF.
The distribution and public health consequences of releases of chemicals intended for pool use in 17 states, 2001–2009.
J Environ Health 2014;76:10–5.
US Census Bureau.
Annual estimates of the resident population for incorporated places of 50,000 or more, ranked by July 1, 2013 population: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2013.
Washington, DC: US Department of Commerce, US Census Bureau; 2014.
 CDC.
Violations identified from routine swimming pool inspections—selected states and counties, United States, 2008.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2010;59:582–7.
Application of a data processing system to a swimming pool inspection program.
Public Health Rep 1965;80:211–9.
CrossRef Vyles T.
Growth and evolution of a municipal pool safety and inspection program.
J Environ Health 2009;71:40–4.
Buss BF, Safranek TJ, Magri JM, Török TJ, Beach MJ, Foley BP.
Association between swimming pool operator certification and reduced pool chemistry violations—Nebraska, 2005–2006.
J Environ Health 2009;71:36–40.
Surveillance data from swimming pool inspections—selected states and counties, United States, May–September 2002.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2003;52:513–6.
Surveillance data from public spa inspections—United States, May–September 2002.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2004;53:553–5.
National Association of County and City Health Officials.
2013 national profile of local health departments.
Washington, DC: National Association of County and City Health Officials; 2014.
 Johnston K, Kinziger M.
Certified operators: Does certification provide significant results in real-world pool and spa chemistry?
IJARE 2007;1:18–33.
Painter JE, Hlavsa MC, Collier SA, Xiao L, Yoder JS.
Cryptosporidiosis surveillance—United States, 2011–2012.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2015;64(No.
SS-3 ):1–14.
Roy SL, DeLong SM, Stenzel SA, et al.
; Emerging Infections Program FoodNet Working Group.
Risk factors for sporadic cryptosporidiosis among immunocompetent persons in the United States from 1999 to 2001.
J Clin Microbiol 2004;42:2944–51.
CrossRef Roy SL, Scallan E, Beach MJ.
The rate of acute gastrointestinal illness in developed countries.
J Water Health 2006;4(Suppl 2 ):31–69 .
CrossRef CDC.
Prevalence of parasites in fecal material from chlorinated swimming pools—United States, 1999.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2001;50:410–2.
Assessment of enteric pathogen shedding by bathers during recreational activity and its impact on water quality.
Quant Microbiol 2000;2:55–68.
CrossRef Amburgey JE, Anderson JB.
Disposable swim diaper retention of Cryptosporidium -sized particles on human subjects in a recreational water setting.
J Water Health 2011;9:653–8.
CrossRef Dufour AP, Evans O, Behymer TD, Cantú R.
Water ingestion during swimming activities in a pool: a pilot study.
J Water Health 2006;4:425–30.
Esterman A, Roder DM, Cameron AS, et al.
Determinants of the microbiological characteristics of South Australian swimming pools.
Appl Environ Microbiol 1984;47:325–8.
Price D, Ahearn DG.
Incidence and persistence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in whirlpools.
J Clin Microbiol 1988;26:1650–4.
Declerck P.
Biofilms: the environmental playground of Legionella pneumophila.
Environ Microbiol 2010;12:557–66.
CrossRef Dziuban EJ, Liang JL, Craun GF, et al.
Surveillance for waterborne disease and outbreaks associated with recreational water—United States, 2003–2004.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2006;55(No.
SS-12):1–30.
Hlavsa MC, Roberts VA, Kahler AM, et al.
Recreational water–associated disease outbreaks—United States, 2009–2010.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2014;63:6–10.
Yoder JS, Hlavsa MC, Craun GF, et al.
Surveillance for waterborne disease and outbreaks associated with recreational water use and other aquatic facility–associated health events—United States, 2005–2006.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2008;57(No.
SS-9):1–29.
Murphy JL, Arrowood MJ, Lu X, Hlavsa MC, Beach MJ, Hill VR.
Effect of cyanuric acid on the inactivation of Cryptosporidium parvum under hyperchlorination conditions.
Environ Sci Technol 2015;49:7348–55.
CrossRef Anderson JR.
A study of the influence of cyanuric acid on the bactericidal effectiveness of chlorine.
Am J Public Health Nations Health 1965;55:1629–37.
CrossRef Fitzgerald GP, DerVartanian ME.
Factors influencing the effectiveness of swimming pool bactericides.
Appl Microbiol 1967;15:504–9.
Shields JM, Arrowood MJ, Hill VR, Beach MJ.
The effect of cyanuric acid on the disinfection rate of Cryptosporidium parvum in 20-ppm free chlorine.
J Water Health 2009;7:109–14.
CrossRef Thompson DC, Rivara FP.
Pool fencing for preventing drowning in children.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000;(2):CD001047.
Pelletier AR, Gilchrist J.
Fatalities in swimming pools with lifeguards: USA, 2000–2008.
Inj Prev 2011;17:250–3.
CrossRef Duong HT, Shahrukh Hashmi S, Ramadhani T, Canfield MA, Scheuerle A, Kim Waller D; National Birth Defects Prevention Study.
Maternal use of hot tub and major structural birth defects.
Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol 2011;91:836–41.
CrossRef Moretti ME, Bar-Oz B, Fried S, Koren G.
Maternal hyperthermia and the risk for neural tube defects in offspring: systematic review and meta-analysis.
Epidemiology 2005;16:216–9.
CrossRef Top * Deceased.
† A glossary of the terms used in this report is provided (Appendix A).
§ The term “pool chemical” is used to refer to any chemical used to maintain water quality or stop corrosion and scaling of equipment in any aquatic venue, not only pools.
¶ This is an underestimate because it does not take into account swimming instances of children aged 0–6 years, persons aged ≥7 years who swam less than six times per year, or the seventh and subsequent swimming instances of persons aged ≥7 years who swam more than six times per year.
** For terminology to be aligned with CDC’s Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC), the term “aquatic venue” has replaced the term “treated recreational water venue,” which has been used historically by CDC in MMWR reports and surveillance summaries.
†† For terminology to be aligned with CDC’s MAHC, the term “interactive water play venue” has replaced the term “interactive fountain,” which has been used historically by CDC in MMWR reports and surveillance summaries.
§§ For terminology to be aligned with CDC’s MAHC, the term “aquatic facility–associated outbreaks” has replaced the term “treated recreational water–associated outbreaks,” which has been used historically by CDC in MMWR reports and surveillance summaries.
¶¶ Many factors can present barriers to the detection, investigation, and reporting of outbreaks: 1) mild illness, 2) small outbreak size, 3) long incubation periods, 4) wide geographic dispersion of ill swimmers, 5) transient nature of contamination, 6) setting or venue of outbreak exposure (e.g., residential backyard pool), 7) lack of public health staff to investigate fully, 8) potential lack of communication between those who respond to outbreaks of chemical etiology (e.g., hazardous materials personnel) and those who usually report outbreaks (e.g., infectious disease epidemiologists), and 9) reporting requirements (8).
*** This program is now known as the National Toxic Substance Incidents Program.
††† The amount of the more active form of the halogen available for disinfection is highly dependent on the pH, substantially decreasing with increasing pH.
For example, hypochlorous acid, or HOCl, is 96% at pH 6.0, 72% at pH 7.0, 48% at 7.5, and 22% at pH 8.0.
§§§ See “Recreational Water–associated Outbreaks of Acute Gastrointestinal Illness (AGI), by Type of Exposure and Etiology — United States, 2003–2012” at 
¶¶¶ For reference purposes, MAHC elements that could minimize risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury and are discussed in this report are followed by the specific section number that covers that element.
**** Entrapment occurs when a body part (e.g., hair, limb, or buttocks) or something on the swimmer’s body (e.g.
jewelry or bathing suit) becomes caught in the suction of the recirculation pump or in an underwater structure.
Top FIGURE.
Aquatic facility–associated outbreaks, by year — Waterborne Disease and Outbreak Surveillance System, United States, 1978–2012* Source: Hlavsa MC, Roberts VA, Kahler AM, et al.
Outbreaks of illness associated with recreational water—United States, 2011–2012.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2015;64:668–72.
*N = 650 (203 aquatic facility–associated cryptosporidiosis outbreaks, 189 hot tub/spa–associated Pseudomonas folliculitis outbreaks, and 258 other aquatic facility–associated outbreaks).
Top TABLE 1.
Number of public aquatic venues* and routine inspections conducted, by jurisdiction — 16 reporting jurisdictions, Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, United States, 2013 Jurisdiction No.
of venues No.
Top TABLE 2.
Rationale for 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC) elements, by illness or injury and number of participating jurisdictions* — 16 reporting jurisdictions, Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, United States, 2013 Critical element Rationale No.
of jurisdictions contributing inspection data No.
of jurisdictions not collecting inspection data or unable to share these data No.
of jurisdictions combining inspection data on multiple inspections items, precluding analysis Aquatic facility–associated illness prevention elements Proper free available chlorine or bromine concentration Prevent transmission of infectious pathogens and reduce creation of disinfection by-products 14 2 0 Proper pH Balance maximizing inactivation of infectious pathogens by free available chlorine or bromine while minimizing skin and eye irritation and corrosion of aquatic venue plumbing 11 5 0 Recirculation pump approved, in good repair, or operating Transport water from aquatic venue via the main drain or other suction outlets, into venue plumbing, and through filter; continue to circulate water through plumbing so that halogen (chlorine or bromine) and pH-adjusting chemical can be added, diluted, and then mixed; and return treated water into aquatic venue via inlets, water jets, or spray features from venue plumbing 1 7 8 Filter approved, in good repair, or operable Remove particles from water, including those that bind with and deplete free available chlorine or bromine 1 9 6 Automated chemical feeder in good repair or operable Add halogen (chlorine or bromine, which when diluted become free available chlorine or bromine, respectively) and pH-adjusting chemical to water in plumbing to optimize inactivation of infectious pathogens 10 4 2 Drowning and entrapment† prevention elements Enclosure: Fencing, walls, gates, and doors in good repair or self-closing and self-latching gates and doors Prevent drowning by preventing unsupervised entry by young children and unauthorized entry outside operational hours 14 2 0 Water clear or main drain visible Prevent drowning and other injury by ensuring visibility of persons, including in deepest water in aquatic venue 9 2 5 Main drain covers compliant with Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
§§ 8001 et seq.) or with ASME/ANSI A112.19.8 or covers/grates of suction outlets secured in place or in good repair Prevent entrapment 13 3 0 Qualified or adequately staffed lifeguards Prevent drowning by recognizing and rescuing distressed bathers 2 5 9 Appropriate safety equipment (e.g., hook or ring) or in good repair or first aid kit present Prevent drowning by providing equipment to rescue distressed bathers, with or without lifeguard on duty 10 3 3 Prevention elements for pool chemical–associated health events and other nondrowning and nonentrapment injuries Chemicals labeled, stored safely, or secured Prevent pool chemical–associated health events 5 5 6 Hot tub/spa temperature ≤104°F (40°C Prevent hyperthermia 11 2 3 Protected overhead electrical wires or GFCI-protected electrical outlets Prevent electrocution, electric shock, burns, and falls caused by contact with electrical energy 9 6 1 General health and safety elements Qualified operator or responsible supervisor on site Prevent aquatic facility–associated illness and injury by ensuring optimal operation and maintenance 6 8 2 Substantial alterations or equipment replacement approved Prevent aquatic facility–associated illness and injury by ensuring new design, construction, and equipment meet code 10 6 0 Abbreviations: ASME = American Society of Mechanical Engineers; ANSI = American National Standards Institute; GFCI = ground fault circuit interrupter.
* Inspection forms, items inspected, and even how the same aspect of public aquatic facility operation and maintenance is inspected vary across jurisdictions.
Thus, the numbers of jurisdictions contributing data to the examination of each MAHC element varies.
† Entrapment occurs when a body part (e.g., hair, limb, or buttocks) or something on the swimmer’s body (e.g., jewelry or bathing suit) becomes caught in the suction of the recirculation pump or in an underwater structure.
Top TABLE 3.
Percentage of routine inspections (N = 84,187*) of public aquatic venues with identified jurisdiction-specific violations, by aquatic venue type and corresponding 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing Model Aquatic Health Code elements — 16 reporting jurisdictions, Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, United States, 2013 Characteristic Aquatic venue type % (No.
§§ 8001 et seq.) or with ASME/ANSI A112.19.8 or covers/grates of suction outlets secured in place or in good repair 1.3 (537/42,520) 1.0 (142/13,673) 0.8 (60/7,825) 1.2 (739/64,018) Qualified or adequately staffed lifeguards 0 (0/9,656) 0 (0/5,575) 0.1 (10/7,825) 0 (10/23,056) Appropriate safety equipment (e.g., hook or ring) or in good repair or first aid kit present 16.6 (6,689/40,231) 1.3 (175/13,592) 12.5 (981/7,825) 12.7 (7,845/61,648) Prevention elements of pool chemical–associated health events and other nondrowning and nonentrapment injuries Chemicals labeled, stored safely, or secured 18.1 (427/2,358) 9.9 (8/81) 0.5 (36/7,825) 4.6 (471/10,264) Hot tub/spa temperature ≤104°F (40°C) NA 7.5 (1,037/13,783) NA 7.5 (1,037/13,783) Protected overhead electrical wires or GFCI- electrical outlets 0.3 (129/38,401) 0.3 (33/11,741) — 0.3 (162/50,142) General health and safety elements Qualified operator or responsible supervisor on site 1.8 (222/12,014) 1.0 (56/5,656) 0.2 (13/7,825) 1.1 (291/25,495) Substantial alterations or equipment replacement approved 0.4 (173/41,217) 0.3 (41/13,278) — 0.4 (214/54,495) Abbreviations: ASME = American Society of Mechanical Engineers; ANSI = American National Standards Institute; GFCI = ground fault circuit interrupter; NA = not applicable.
* The denominators vary because of differences in the number of jurisdictions contributing inspection data to examine a given critical element.
† No data available.
Top TABLE 4.
Percentage of routine inspections (N = 55,913*) of public pools with identified jurisdiction-specific violations, by pool type and corresponding 15 critical illness and injury risk-minimizing Model Aquatic Health Code elements — 16 reporting jurisdictions, Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, United States, 2013 Characteristic Pool category % (No.
§§ 8001 et seq.) or with ASME/ANSI A112.19.8 or covers/grates of suction outlets secured in place or in good repair 1.3 (517/40,283) 1.1 (17/1,581) NA 0.5 (3/656) 1.3 (537/42,520) Qualified or adequately staffed lifeguards 0 (0/8,775) 0 (0/658) NA 0 (0/223) 0 (0/9,656) Appropriate safety equipment (e.g., hook or ring) or in good repair or first aid kit present 17.5 (6,638/37,945) 1.2 (19/1,581) 0 (0/66) 5.0 (32/639) 16.6 (6,689/40,231) Prevention elements of pool chemical–associated health events and other nondrowning and nonentrapment injuries Chemicals labeled, stored safely, or secured 18.2 (425/2,338) — 0 (0/3) 11.8 (2/17) 18.1 (427/2,358) Protected overhead electrical wires or GFCI-electrical outlets 0.3 (125/36,137) 0.2 (3/1,539) 0 (0/69) 0.2 (1/656) 0.3 (129/38,401) General health and safety elements Qualified operator or responsible supervisor on site 1.9 (211/11,113) 1.7 (11/658) 0 (0/3) 0 (0/240) 1.8 (222/12,014) Substantial alterations or equipment replacement approved 0.4 (169/38,953) 0.1 (1/1,539) 0 (0/69) 0.5 (3/656) 0.4 (173/41,217) Abbreviations: ASME = American Society of Mechanical Engineers; ANSI = American National Standards Institute; GFCI = ground fault circuit interrupter; NA = not applicable.
* The denominators vary because of differences in the number of jurisdictions contributing inspection data to examine a given critical element.
†For terminology to be aligned with CDC’s Model Aquatic Health Code, the term “wading pool” has replaced the term “kiddie/wading pool,” which has historically been used by CDC in MMWR reports and surveillance summaries.
§ Other includes special purpose pools, water attractions, water activity, water slides, and lazy rivers.
Previous CDC MMWR reports on pool inspection data included therapy pools.
Therapy pool is not included in this table because no inspection data on therapy pools were reported.
¶No data available.
Top TABLE 5.
Summary of findings of previous reports* of analysis of data collected during inspections of public aquatic facilities† in multiple jurisdictions — selected jurisdictions, United States, 2002 and 2008 Characteristic Public hot tub/spa inspections§ Public pool inspections¶ Public pool inspections** No.
of participating state or local jurisdictions 6 6 15 Methodology for selecting jurisdictions with electronic inspection data Convenience sample Convenience sample Convenience sample of jurisdictions with ≥1,000 inspection records for 2008 Type of violation documented No.
§ Source: CDC.
Surveillance data from public spa inspections—United States, May–September 2002.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2004;53:553–5.
¶ Source: CDC.
Surveillance data from swimming pool inspections—selected states and counties, United States, May–September 2002.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2003;52:513–6.
** Source: CDC.
Violations identified from routine swimming pool inspections—selected states and counties, United States, 2008.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2010;59:582–7.
†† Count not available.
§§ Aggregate variable.
A positive could include one or more violations in any area (e.g., algae, bacterial quality, calcium hardness, cyanurate levels, disinfectant/pH chemical feeders, total alkalinity, and turbidity).
¶¶ Aggregate variable.
A positive could include one or more violations in any area (e.g., algae, bacterial quality, calcium hardness, cyanurate levels, disinfectant/pH chemical feeders, and total alkalinity).
*** Aggregated, dichotomous variable indicating whether at least one of the following inspection items was found to be in violation: algae, bacterial quality, calcium hardness, cyanurate levels, disinfectant/pH chemical feeders, oxidation reduction potential, saturation index, total alkalinity, and total dissolved solids.
††† Aggregate variable.
A positive could include one or more violations in any area (e.g., backwash, cross connections, filter, flow meter, pressure gauges, recirculation system, and turnover).
§§§ Aggregate variable.
A positive could include one or more violations in any area (e.g., backwash, cross connections, filter, flow meter, pressure gauges, recirculation system, turnover, and turbidity).
¶¶¶ Aggregated, dichotomous variable indicating whether at least one of the following inspection items was found to be in violation: cross connections, filter, flow meter, gauges, pipe labeling, skimmer/gutter, turbidity, turnover, water level, and weirs.
Top View Appendices Top Suggested citation for this article: Hlavsa MC, Gerth TR, Collier SA, et al.
Immediate Closures and Violations Identified During Routine Inspections of Public Aquatic Facilities — Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, Five States, 2013.
MMWR Surveill Summ 2016;65(No.
SS-5):1–26.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Prevention Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Pool Contamination Response Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Campaigns VIEW ALL Public Health Pool Inspection Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code View All MAY 16, 2025 Healthy and Safe Swimming Week Communications Toolkit PURPOSE The information and materials below can help public health professionals promote healthy and safe swimming messages on social media, websites, and other communication channels during Healthy and Safe Swimming Week and throughout the year.
These resources can be used to raise awareness about the steps everyone can take to protect themselves and others from illness and injury in and around the water.
Reach out to partners All audiences Post web content related to splash pads on your organization's website.
Disseminate healthy and safe swimming messages and materials (for example, in email announcements).
Post messages on your organization's social media channels using the "Post on social media" content below.
Media Share information on steps swimmers and caregivers can take to prevent splash pad-related illnesses, drowning, other swimming-related illnesses, and pool chemical injuries.
Operators of treated aquatic venues (pools, hot tubs, and splash pads) Check out CDC's Model Aquatic Health Code and explore how it can be used to prevent illness and injury in and around aquatic venues.
Explore forms, protocols, and other resources on our MAHC Tools and Training page.
Share CDC's latest guidance on the proper operation and management of pools, hot tubs, and splash pads.
Beach managers and operators of untreated aquatic venues Recommend that beach managers: Check out EPA's online technical resources .
Sign up for the Great Lakes Commission email group —known as Beachnet—to communicate and network with other beach managers across the country.
Establish policies that allow employees to perform alternate duties that do not require entering the water if they have diarrhea or an open cut or wound that cannot be completely covered by a waterproof bandage.
Pool supply stores Recommend that retailers share information on pool chemical safety online and in their stores.
Healthcare providers Encourage providers to share healthy and safe swimming messages with their patients.
Engage your local chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics or other organizations for healthcare professionals.
Community leaders Create fact sheets for community leaders (such as program administrators, boards of health, and elected officials) detailing specifics about your agency's Healthy and Safe Swimming Week efforts.
Post on social media Use these suggested posts to spread the word about healthy and safe swimming on your social media platforms.
Splash pads Swallowing even a small amount of water contaminated with certain germs can make you sick with diarrhea for up to 3 weeks.
Learn easy ways to keep kids healthy at splash pads.
Going to the splash pad with your kids?
Take breaks every hour to use the bathroom or check diapers.
Tell kids not to sit on jets, which can rinse and spread germs off rear ends.
Don’t take your child to the splash pad if they are sick with diarrhea.
If someone swallows even a small amount of water contaminated with diarrhea-causing germs, they can get sick for weeks.
Chlorine doesn’t kill germs instantly.
It can take minutes to days to kill certain diarrhea-causing germs.
Make a Healthy Splash Fact Sheet Follow these steps to protect children from germs at splash pads Download Make a Healthy Splash Fact Sheet Spanish Mantenerse saludable en las áreas recreativas con chorros de agua.
Download Drowning Watch kids closely when they are in or around water.
Drowning happens quickly and quietly, so avoid distracting activities like being on a phone.
More children ages 1–4 years die from drowning than any other cause.
Learn what you can do to help protect children from drowning.
Help prevent children from getting in your backyard pool unsupervised.
Install four-sided fencing which fully encloses the pool and separates it from the house, with self-closing and self-latching gates.
Help keep swimmers safe.
Know how to recognize and respond to a swimmer in distress and how to perform CPR.
Teach children basic swimming and water safety skills.
Swimming lessons can reduce the risk of drowning.
Children who have had swimming lessons still need close and constant supervision when in or around water.
Other swimming-related illnesses Follow CDC's steps for healthy swimming to protect yourself and those you care about from illness at the pool and beach this summer.
Pee in the toilet, not in the pool!
When pee and chlorine mix in the pool, there is less chlorine available to kill germs.
 that chlorine doesn't kill germs in pools right away?
While it kills most germs within minutes, some germs can live in a properly chlorinated pool for days!
Protect yourself.
Don't swallow water you swim or play in.
Sweat and dirt on your body can use up chlorine needed to kill germs in the pool.
Showering before you get in the pool keeps chlorine levels up to help keep you and those you care about healthy!
Going for a swim with kids?
Take a break every hour to use the bathroom or check diapers.
Change diapers away from the water to help keep germs from getting in.
Don't swallow splash pad water.
Did you know that it can take chlorine minutes—and sometimes even days—to kill germs in splash pad water?
Swallowing water with germs can cause diarrhea or vomiting.
Diarrhea and swimming Diarrhea and swimming don't mix!
Follow CDC's steps for healthy swimming to help protect yourself and those you care about from illness at the pool.
Did you know swallowing even a small amount of water contaminated with diarrhea germs can make you sick for up to 3 weeks?
Don't swallow water at the pool or splash pad!
Don't swim or let your kids swim if they are sick with diarrhea.
One person with diarrhea can contaminate the entire pool and make others sick for up to 3 weeks.
Stay out of splash pads if you are sick with diarrhea.
Jets can rinse germs found in poop off butts and swallowing the water with those germs can make you sick.
Chlorine doesn't kill germs instantly.
Pool chemical safety Using your backyard pool?
Pool chemicals protect us from germs but can cause injuries if not handled safely.
Check out CDC's website for pool chemical safety tips.
Using your backyard pool this summer?
Help protect kids and pets by keeping pool chemicals out of reach.
Backyard pool owners: Make sure you know how to safely use pool chemicals to help keep everyone safe and healthy this summer.
Backyard pool owners: Learn how to safely use pool chemicals and help protect yourself, kids, and pets from injury.
Vibrio infection Stay safe this summer!
Vibrio bacteria live in the ocean and can get into skin through cuts or open wounds.
If a wound gets worse after swimming in salty or brackish water, seek medical attention.
This summer, swim safely.
Cover any wounds with a waterproof bandage before swimming or wading in brackish or salt water.
Graphics Download There are steps you can take to protect yourself and others from germs at splash pads.
Download Swim lessons can prevent drowning and save lives.
Download Drowning is the leading cause of death for young children.
Download One person with diarrhea can contaminate an entire pool.
Download Peeing in the pool can create chemicals that irritate everyone's eyes.
Download Don't swim or play in the water if you are sick with diarrhea.
Download There are simple steps caregivers can take to keep kids healthy when they swim.
ON THIS PAGE Reach out to partners Post on social media SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Healthy Habits Prevention Preparing for Healthy and Safe Swimming Pool Contamination Response Publications Healthy Swimming Communication Resources Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Campaigns VIEW ALL Public Health Pool Inspection Toolkit VIEW ALL Related Topics: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code View All For Everyone MAY 28, 2025 ESPAÑOL Pool Chemical Emergencies AT A GLANCE Pool chemical injuries account for about 4,500 emergency department visits each year.
At least one third of the patients are under 18 years old.
Create an emergency response plan so you know what to do before, during, and after a pool chemical emergency.
Response planning Develop an emergency response plan that includes: Spill-cleanup procedure Chemical incident and exposure response Clear chain of command and alternates with contact information Evacuation plan Communication plan for alerting patrons, staff, and emergency responders Train the aquatics staff on the procedures in the emergency response plan.
Keep a copy of the emergency response plan near (for example, in the hallway just outside of) the chemical storage area, pump room, and venue area and ensure that another copy is also available at a remote location in case of an evacuation.
Ensure up-to-date safety data sheets are easily accessible to first responders in case of evacuation.
Have a phone with updated emergency numbers near (for example, in the hallway just outside of) the chemical storage area, pump room, and venue area and ensure that a phone is also available at a remote location in case of an evacuation.
Practice emergency response with first responders.
During an incident Activate your emergency response plan during an incident.
For indoor venues, if chemical fumes are released in the chemical storage area, pump room, or venue area: If the corresponding air handling system is separate from other areas of the building: leave the HVAC system on to ventilate.
If the corresponding air handling system is shared with other areas of the building: turn off the HVAC system immediately.
After an incident Document the incident and response and report them to local or state permitting officials.
(Local or state permitting officials should consider revising public health regulations in response to reports of pool chemical injuries to reduce the future likelihood of such events.) Conduct a post-incident critique with all parties involved in the response.
Revise the emergency response plan as needed.
ON THIS PAGE Response planning During an incident After an incident RELATED PAGES Aquatics Professionals Toolkit Operating Pools, Hot Tubs & Splash Pads Chloramines and Pool Operation Pool Chemical Safety Surf Venue Guidance VIEW ALL Healthy Swimming Campaigns SOURCES PRINT SHARE Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Physical Activity EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Physical Activity in Daily Life VIEW ALL Public Health About Physical Activity Increasing Physical Activity Built Environment Assessment Tool and Manual Data & Statistics for Physical Activity Reports and Featured Research Community Design Examples Physical Activity Fact Sheets and Infographics Guidelines and Recommended Strategies Community Design Resources Community Design Definitions Military Readiness Stairwell Ideas Community Design Visual Guide VIEW ALL Related Topics: Nutrition | About Healthy Weight and Growth | Obesity View All JANUARY 31, 2025 Adult Physical Inactivity Outside of Work KEY POINTS Differences in the prevalence of physical inactivity among U.S.
adults exist by race/ethnicity and location.
Overall, combined data from 2017 through 2020 show physical inactivity prevalence of 25.3%.
These maps reflect physical activity done outside of work.
Background Press Release | What Can Be Done (January 2022)—These maps use data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS).
CDC and state health departments conduct the ongoing state-based, telephone interview survey.
This survey asked respondents if they had done any physical activity outside of their regular job in the past month.
People who said "no" were classified as inactive.
The BRFSS question read: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" These maps use combined data from 2017 through 2020 for 52 jurisdictions: 49 states.
The District of Columbia.
The territories of Guam and Puerto Rico.
Data for New Jersey were not reported because data were not collected in 2019.
Combining 4 years of data allowed analysis of physical inactivity among different racial and ethnic groups.
Data from individual years are available through BRFSS.
Overall, the prevalence of physical inactivity was 25.3%.
Previous maps were released in January 2020 with data from 2015 through 2018.
Two years in that analysis overlap with data in this analysis.
Therefore, the two editions of maps should not be compared for trends.
Race/ethnicity Overall, non-Hispanic Asian adults (20.1%) had the lowest prevalence of physical inactivity outside of work followed by non-Hispanic White (23.0%), non-Hispanic American Indian/Alaska Native (29.1%), non-Hispanic Black (30.0%), and Hispanic or Latino/a adults (32.1%).
2 states (Alaska and Montana) and Guam had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or higher among non-Hispanic Asian adults.* 5 states (Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and West Virginia) had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or higher among non-Hispanic White adults.
27 states had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or higher among non-Hispanic American Indian/Alaska Native adults.* 23 states and the District of Columbia had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or higher among non-Hispanic Black adults.* 25 states and Puerto Rico had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or higher among Hispanic or Latino/a adults.
*49 of 52 jurisdictions had sufficient data to be included in these results.
Physical activity can benefit everyone, but lack of access to safe and convenient places to be physically active may contribute to these racial and ethnic disparities.
Resource Tools to Help Achieve Health for All Location The lowest prevalence of inactivity outside of work was 17.7% (Colorado), and the highest prevalence was 49.4% (Puerto Rico).
Regionally, states in the South (27.5%) had the highest prevalence of physical inactivity, followed by the Midwest (25.2%), Northeast (24.7%), and West (21.0%).
4 states (Colorado, Utah, Washington, and Vermont) had a physical inactivity prevalence of 17.7% to less than 20%.
24 states and the District of Columbia had a physical inactivity prevalence of 20% to less than 25%.
14 states and Guam had a physical inactivity prevalence of 25% to less than 30%.
7 states (West Virginia, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Alabama, Kentucky, Arkansas, and Mississippi) and Puerto Rico had a physical inactivity prevalence of 30% or more.
What can be done Reducing physical inactivity requires a comprehensive effort from many groups—including states, communities, worksites, and individuals—to make it easier for everyone to move more.
Community leaders, for example, can encourage school and youth physical activity programs and support the design of active-friendly communities.
The racial and ethnic differences in physical inactivity underscore the need to address barriers to physical activity for groups more likely to be inactive.
Examples of barriers include lack of safe spaces for physical activity such as parks, unsafe streets with high-speed traffic and no sidewalks, lack of time, and lack of social supports.
Everyone has a role to play to increase physical activity.
Learn more about strategies to increase physical activity.
Also, get involved in Active People, Healthy NationSM, CDC's national initiative to help 27 million people become more physically active by 2027.
Individuals and families are encouraged to build physical activity into their everyday routines.
See recommended physical activity amounts for people ages 3 years and older.
Map: overall physical inactivity outside of work Prevalence of Self-Reported Physical Inactivity* Among U.S.
Adults by State and Territory, BRFSS, 2017–2020 Overall, the prevalence of physical inactivity was 25.3%.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
adults by race/ethnicity, state, and territory, BRFSS, 2017–2020 Non-Hispanic Asian adults Overall, the prevalence of physical inactivity outside of work among non-Hispanic Asian adults was 20.1%.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Survey respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Survey respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Survey respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Survey respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
Source: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System * Survey respondents were classified as physically inactive if they responded "no" to the following question: "During the past month, other than your regular job, did you participate in any physical activities or exercises such as running, calisthenics, golf, gardening, or walking for exercise?" ** Sample size less than 50, the relative standard error (dividing the standard error by the prevalence) greater than or equal to 30%, or no data in at least 1 year.
Includes physical activity and environmental and policy supports for physical activity.
PLACES: Local Data for Better Health Model-based population-level analysis and community estimates for all U.S.
counties, places (incorporated and census-designated places), census tracts, and ZIP Code Tabulation Areas.
Includes data on physical inactivity.
Health Status Data Sources of data to identify gaps in health.
Progress and New Directions in Physical Activity Surveillance Journal of Physical Activity & Health supplement with up to 20 years of physical activity data.
Articles include discussion of the history and future directions for national physical activity surveillance.
Physical Activity Across Domains Provides information on physical activity and inactivity that includes leisure, occupational/household, and transportation activities.
ON THIS PAGE Background Race/ethnicity Location What can be done Map: overall physical inactivity outside of work Maps: physical inactivity outside of work by race/ethnicity Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Physical Activity Physical activity is vital throughout life.
See strategies, data, and resources to increase physical activity in states and communities.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pinworm Infection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention Diagnosing Pinworms VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview VIEW ALL View All SEPTEMBER 9, 2024 About Pinworm Infection KEY POINTS Pinworm infection is caused by small, thin, white parasitic roundworms.
Anyone can get pinworm infection, but it primarily affects children, people in long-term care facilities, and household members and caretakers of persons with pinworm infections.
Medication, handwashing, and good hygiene are the best ways to stop the spread of pinworm.
Overview Pinworms are a type of parasitic roundworm that can infect your intestines.
Parasites are organisms (a living thing) that lives on or inside another organism.
Pinworm infection causes itching around the anus (butthole).
Anyone can get a pinworm infection, but it usually affects children, people living with or caring for children, and people living in long-term care facilities or institutional settings.
Pinworm infection is preventable and treatable.
On average, a single pinworm is about the size of a staple.
The scientific name for a pinworm is Enterobius vermicularis and some healthcare providers may use the terms enterobiasis or oxyuriasis to refer to pinworm infection.
Signs and symptoms Symptoms of pinworm infection are usually mild, and some people have no symptoms.
If you do have symptoms, it is typically itching around the anus.
Female pinworms lay their eggs at night on the skin around the anus, which can cause the skin to itch.
Some infected people have difficulty sleeping or restlessness.
Some infected people have reported abdominal pain.
Occasionally, pinworms can move to the vaginal area, causing irritation and inflammation.
Repeated scratching can make the skin red and puffy and lead to bacterial skin infections—in addition to the pinworm infection.
Risk factors Pinworm infection occurs worldwide.
Pinworms can infect anyone, in any setting, and are the most common worm infection in the United States.
Pinworm infection occurs most commonly among School-aged and preschool-aged children, People in institutional settings, and Household members and caretakers of people with pinworm infection.
Pinworm infections often occur in more than one person in a household.
It is common to see multiple infections in institutional and childcare settings as pinworms spread easily.
How it spreads While an infected person sleeps, female pinworms leave the intestine through the anus and deposit their eggs on the surrounding skin.
Two to three hours after pinworms lay their eggs, the eggs become capable of infecting other people who accidentally swallow them.
The eggs can easily infect another person, especially caretakers or close contacts of infected children or adults: If, after they touch an infected area around the anus, or get eggs under their fingernails, they then touch their mouth.
After pinworm eggs get onto diapers, clothes, bedding, food, or other items, the worms could then make it from the object to someone's mouth.
(If not properly washed or cleaned, pinworm eggs can survive 2 – 3 weeks on objects.) When pinworm eggs, which are tiny, float through the air and someone breaths them in then swallows them (rare).
Prevention Washing your hands with soap and warm water is the best way to prevent pinworm infection.
This is especially important after Using the toilet Changing diapers, and Touching people who have pinworm or handling items they have used.
Always wash your hands before handling food.
Teach children the importance of washing their hands thoroughly and often.
Repeated infections are common.
Treat everyone—people infected with pinworms, their caretakers, and members of their household—with the same two-dose treatment.
Learn more prevention methods and how to prevent multiple infections and spread.
Diagnosis If you or someone you know is showing signs of a pinworm infection, speak with your healthcare provider.
There are three ways, with your help, your provider can diagnose pinworm infection: Look for pinworms around the anus 2 – 3 hours after the who may be infected person goes to sleep.
Conduct a "tape test" to collect possible pinworm eggs around the anus.
Look at samples from under the fingernails of the person who may have pinworms.
Learn more about the specific steps to take on the Diagnosis page.
Treatment and recovery There are medications, both over the counter and prescription, that can treat pinworm infection.
If you or someone you care for are experiencing symptoms of pinworm infection, talk with your healthcare provider to be properly diagnosed.
Treat everyone in the same household and caregivers of the person diagnosed with pinworms at the same time.
Treatment involves two doses of medication with the second dose given two weeks after the first dose.
The medications kill worms but cannot kill eggs.
The second dose is important to prevent infection by newly hatched adult worms that were not killed by the first treatment because they were still eggs.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Signs and symptoms Risk factors How it spreads Prevention Diagnosis Treatment and recovery SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pinworm Infection Pinworm infection is caused by small, thin, white parasitic roundworms.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Appendices for Immediate Closures and Violations Identified During Routine Inspections of Public Aquatic Facilities — Network for Aquatic Facility Inspection Surveillance, Five States, 2013 January 1, 1970 Print View associated article APPENDIX A Glossary of Terms Used in This Report “Aquatic facility” means a physical place that contains one or more aquatic venues (e.g., a pool or hot tub/spa) and support infrastructure (e.g., chemical storage area).
“Aquatic venue” means an artificially constructed structure or modified natural structure where the general public is exposed to water intended for recreational or therapeutic purpose.
Such structures do not necessarily contain standing water, so water exposure might occur via contact, ingestion, or inhalation.
Examples include wave pools, lazy rivers, surf pools, hot tubs/spas, therapy pools, waterslide landing pools, and interactive water play venues.
“Free available chlorine” means the portion of the total chlorine that has not combined with other compounds (e.g., combined with nitrogenous compounds to form dichloramine or trichloramine) and is present as hypochlorous acid (HOCl) or hypochlorite ion (OCl–).
The pH of the water determines the relative amounts of hypochlorous acid and hypochlorite ion.
HOCl is a very effective bactericide and is the active bactericide in the water.
OCl– is also a bactericide but acts more slowly than HOCl.
As pH decreases, more HOCl is formed; however, as pH increases more OCl- is formed.
Free available chlorine concentration must be maintained for adequate disinfection.
“Hot tub/spa” means a structure intended for either warm or cold water where prolonged exposure is not intended.
Hot tub/spa structures are intended to be used for bathing or other recreational uses and are not usually drained and refilled after each use.
Hot tubs/spas might be used for hydrotherapy and might have air induction bubbles and a recirculation system.
“Interactive water play venue” means any indoor or outdoor installation that includes sprayed, jetted, or other water sources contacting bathers and not incorporating standing or captured water as part of the bather activity area.
These aquatic venues are also known as splash pads, spray pads, wet decks, and water playgrounds.
“Pool” means a subset of aquatic venues designed to have standing water for total or partial bather immersion.
This does not include hot tubs/spas.
“Wading pool” means any pool used exclusively for wading and intended for use by young children where the depth does not exceed 2 feet (0.6 m).
APPENDIX B CDC’s Model Aquatic Health Code Need for the Model Aquatic Health Code Preventing aquatic facility–associated illness and injury calls for a strategy that requires at least three key components (known as the three E’s) of environmental health practice: education, engineering, and enforcement.
In the United States, individual state and local public health jurisdictions write, enact, implement, and enforce their own unique public health codes covering the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of public aquatic facilities; residential aquatic facilities are usually covered under building codes.
CDC’s Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC;  is national guidance that can be voluntarily adopted by state and local jurisdictions to minimize the risk of illness and injury at public aquatic venues.
The MAHC includes recommendations for education- and engineering-based strategies, and when voluntarily adopted by state and local jurisdictions it also becomes an enforcement-based strategy.
Education Aquatic facility operators and staff, public health officials (e.g., environmental health practitioners, who inspect public aquatic facilities, epidemiologists, and health communication specialists), bathers, and parents of young bathers all need to be engaged to minimize the risk for aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
Ensuring that each stakeholder knows the steps to take to help prevent aquatic facility–associated outbreaks, drowning, and pool chemical–associated health events is necessary to promoting healthy and safe swimming.
To properly operate and maintain public aquatic facilities, operators need training that includes essential topics such as water disinfection and chemistry, mechanical systems (including air handling systems), and other illness and injury risk-minimizing strategies.
Studies have found that jurisdictions or public aquatic facilities requiring operator training have fewer violations and better disinfectant concentrations and pH than those jurisdictions or public aquatic facilities without such a requirement (1,2).
Environmental health practitioners need to maintain current knowledge about the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of public aquatic facilities and the prevention of aquatic facility–associated illness and injury.
Environmental health practitioners sometimes write and enact public aquatic facility codes and always implement and enforce them.
Environmental health practitioners enforce design and construction standards through plan review and preoperational inspections, conducted after new construction or substantial alteration, and enforce operation and maintenance standards through routine, complaint, and follow-up inspections.
The aquatics sector and public health should collaborate to disseminate healthy and safe swimming messages to bathers and parents of young bathers.
The aquatics sector and public health should promote healthy and safe swimming year-round, and especially during Healthy and Safe Swimming Week (the week before Memorial Day) and the summer swim season (Memorial Day through Labor Day).
This can be done via websites (e.g.,  and increasingly via social media (
Healthy swimming education campaigns conducted before aquatic facility–associated outbreaks of infectious etiology occur might help prevent them (3).
The public needs to understand the potential risks associated with the use of public aquatic facilities and how they can help keep themselves and others healthy (4).
Healthy swimming messages for all bathers include: do not swim while ill with diarrhea, do not swallow water while swimming, and shower before entering the water.
To promote adoption of healthy swimming behaviors by the public, healthy swimming education campaigns need to dispel commonly held but mistaken beliefs (e.g., that pool water is sterile and that chlorine instantly inactivates all infectious pathogens), which likely lead to swimming with diarrheal illness and thus potential introduction and transmission of infectious pathogens (5).
Drowning prevention messages for the public include making sure everyone knows how to swim, fencing off pools to keep children away, using life jackets appropriately, providing continuous and close supervision of young swimmers, and knowing cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
The principal pool chemical safety messages for those storing and handling pool chemicals include: secure pool chemicals away from children and read the Occupational Safety and Health Administration– or Environmental Protection Agency–required pool chemical labels, which identify incompatible chemical(s) and personal protective equipment needed for safe handling (
Engineering Filtration and halogen (e.g., chlorine or bromine) disinfection post filtration prevent transmission of most infectious pathogens in the water of aquatic venues.
Typically, an aquatic venue’s recirculation pump transports the water out of the venue basin via the main drain or other suction outlets, into the venue plumbing, and through the filter to remove particles that can bind with and deplete halogens.
The water continues to circulate through the venue plumbing so that the halogen and pH-adjusting chemical (used to optimize inactivation of infectious pathogens and swimmer comfort simultaneously) can be added, diluted, and then mixed.
Finally the treated water returns to the aquatic venue via inlets, water jets, or spray features.
At CDC-recommended concentrations,* halogens inactivate most infectious pathogens within minutes but the extremely halogen-tolerant parasite, Cryptosporidium, can survive for days (6,7).
This means the transmission of halogen-susceptible infectious pathogens (e.g., E.
coli O157:H7 or Shigella spp.) can be prevented but the transmission of Cryptosporidium cannot at CDC-recommended halogen concentrations.
The emergence of Cryptosporidium as the leading etiology of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks has led to engineering innovations to inactivate (e.g., ultraviolet light or ozone treatment) or remove (e.g., flocculants and improved filter media) the parasite.
Public aquatic facilities can be designed to minimize the risk of drowning.
Fencing, walls, and self-closing and self-latching gates and doors can prevent unsupervised entry by young children and unauthorized entry outside operational hours.
Aquatic venue design can improve bather visibility for lifeguards and bathers.
Additionally, the advent of interactive water play venues, which do not have standing water above ground because the water drains into an underground tank, also minimizes the risk for drowning.
Finally, toxic chlorine gas can be generated if chlorine and acid are not diluted sufficiently before mixing.
This can occur when they are mixed by aquatics staff or in aquatic venue plumbing when there is inadequate water flow.
When the recirculation pump shuts down or fails to generate adequate flow but the automated chemical feeder pumps continue to inject concentrated chemicals into the water, the mixing of these two concentrated chemicals produces toxic chlorine gas.
Restarting the recirculation pump then vents the toxic chlorine gas from the venue plumbing and into the aquatic venue.
To prevent this from happening, an electrical interlock should be installed between the automated chemical feeders, the recirculation pumps, and water flow meter/flow switches to shut down automated chemical feeder pumps if the recirculation pumps shut down or there is inadequate water flow in the venue plumbing.
Enforcement There are no minimum national standards for training aquatic facility operators or comprehensive standards for the engineering of public aquatic facilities to prevent illness and injury.
federal agency regulates the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of public aquatic facilities, although some federal regulations pertain to specific aspects of public aquatic facilities.
For example, the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
§§ 8001 et seq.) aims to prevent main drain–associated entrapment†.
Individual state and local jurisdictions write, enact, implement, and enforce their own unique public aquatic facility codes, leading to variability in state and local codes.
This variability is further compounded by how resource intensive it is to update these codes (e.g., staffing, time, and expertise needed), difficult it is to set standards in the absence of scientific data, and the variability in timeframes within which individual state and local jurisdictions update their codes.
Consequently, emerging public health threats (e.g., Cryptosporidium) and aquatics sector innovations, which might pose novel risks for aquatic facility–associated illness or injury or conversely minimize long-established risk, might not be addressed on a timely basis across the United States.
Development of the MAHC In response to the increasing incidence of aquatic facility–associated outbreaks, particularly those caused by Cryptosporidium, the Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists, in 2004, called for CDC to hold a national workshop to develop prevention recommendations  ).
In 2005, CDC held the Recreational Water Illness Prevention Workshop for local, state, and federal public health officials and aquatics sector representatives.
Workshop attendees identified two barriers to preventing the outbreaks: the variability in public aquatic facility codes across the United States and the resource-intensive effort required to keep each of these codes updated.
The workshop attendees’ primary recommendation was for CDC to lead a national consortium of public health officials and aquatics sector representatives to develop an open-access model code, based on the latest scientific data and best practices when scientific data were not available.
To maximize the model code’s utility, attendees recommended that the scope be expanded to be an all-inclusive, all-hazards facility–based code that not only aimed to prevent transmission of infectious pathogens but also injury (e.g., drowning and pool chemical–associated health events), as well as poor indoor air quality and other potential adverse exposures at public aquatic facilities.
Such a code would cover all of the pertinent aspects of an aquatic facility’s life, including design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management.
In addition, attendees recommended developing a companion annex to provide the rationale behind the code, including peer-reviewed, scientific data with references.
Individual state and local jurisdictions would be free to voluntarily adopt parts of the model code, revise as needed to meet their unique needs before adoption, or choose not to adopt the model code at all.
During 2007–2014, CDC’s National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases and National Center for Environmental Health (with assistance from the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control and the Public Health Law Office) and the New York State Department of Health spearheaded the development of a model code, now known as the MAHC.
Soliciting input from the public health, aquatics, and academic sectors was a cornerstone of this multidisciplinary, multi-stakeholder effort.
Fourteen MAHC modules ( Box), which included code language and supporting rationale, were drafted by the steering committee or one of 12 technical committees, each with members from the different sectors.
The MAHC steering committee either wrote or reviewed, edited, and approved each draft module in collaboration with the respective technical committee.
The 14 modules were posted individually on CDC’s MAHC website for a 60-day public comment period.
A total of 2,979 comments on the 14 modules were received; 84.1% (2,504) could be accepted or rejected, of which 76.0% (1,904) were accepted.
A total of 13 modules§ were revised on the basis of public comment, and these revised modules were then interwoven into two documents, the code and the annex, and posted for a second 60-day public comment period.
The second public comment period allowed reviewers to cross check among modules and ensure consistency throughout the MAHC.
Of 1,428 comments, 92.5% (1,321) could be accepted or rejected, of which 63.5% (839) were accepted.
Over the two public comment periods, CDC received 4,407 comments and accepted 71.7% (2,743/3,825) of the comments that could be accepted or rejected.
Following extensive revision in response to the second public comment period, CDC released the first edition of the MAHC and its annex on August 29, 2014.
The MAHC represents the combined work of more than 150 public health, aquatics, and academic volunteers and the many contributors of public comments that helped optimize the MAHC.
To keep current with the latest scientific data and aquatics sector innovations, the MAHC will be updated every 2 years through an all-stakeholder–driven process, much like the MAHC development process.
The nonprofit organization, the Council for the Model Aquatic Health Code (CMAHC;  ), was created in 2013 and its role is to collect, assess, and relay national input on needed MAHC revisions back to CDC for final consideration for acceptance; advocate for improved health and safety at public aquatic facilities; provide assistance to health departments, boards of health, legislatures, and other partners on MAHC uses, benefits, and implementation; provide assistance to the aquatics sector on uses, interpretation, and benefits of the MAHC; and solicit, coordinate, and prioritize MAHC research needs.
The CDC-CMAHC partnership should ensure that the MAHC remains up to date and continues to minimize the risk for illness and injury at public aquatic venues.
In October 2015, the first CMAHC biennial conference was held.
CMAHC members subsequently voted on 159 change requests to help guide CDC’s revision of the MAHC prior to the release of its second edition during the 2016 summer swim season.
Tracking Voluntary Adoption of the MAHC The MAHC is a comprehensive CDC model code that brings infectious disease and injury epidemiology, environmental health, and public health law expertise together to protect public health at public aquatic facilities.
The magnitude of the MAHC’s impact on the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of U.S.
public aquatic facilities is dependent on how many, and which, jurisdictions adopt its recommendations.
To track voluntary adoption of the MAHC across the United States, CDC is systematically searching legal databases (e.g., Municode and WestLaw) for changes to public health codes for public aquatic facilities in 20 state and local jurisdictions.
The jurisdictions were selected because they had either 1) the highest counts of public aquatic venues and the highest drowning rates (8) or 2) the most aquatic venues per 100,000 persons (9).
The searches prioritize recommendations unique to the MAHC that have the greatest potential impact on public health (e.g., requirements for inactivating Cryptosporidium, fencing 6 feet in height, and training on chemical safety for those who handle pool chemicals).
The search criteria also include any direct mention of the MAHC or replicated MAHC text.
References Buss BF, Safranek TJ, Magri JM, Török TJ, Beach MJ, Foley BP.
Association between swimming pool operator certification and reduced pool chemistry violations—Nebraska, 2005–2006.
J Environ Health 2009;71:36–40.
Johnston K, Kinziger M.
Certified operators: does certification provide significant results in real-world pool and spa chemistry?
IJARE 2007;1:18–33.
Promotion of healthy swimming after a statewide outbreak of cryptosporidiosis associated with recreational water venues—Utah, 2008–2009.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2012;61:348–52.
McClain J, Bernhardt JM, Beach MJ.
Assessing parents’ perception of children’s risk for recreational water illnesses.
Emerg Infect Dis 2005;11:670–6.
CrossRef Beach MJ.
Waterborne: recreational water.
Cryptosporidium and cryptosporidiosis.
Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 2008.
Murphy JL, Arrowood MJ, Lu X, Hlavsa MC, Beach MJ, Hill VR.
Effect of cyanuric acid on the inactivation of Cryptosporidium parvum under hyperchlorination conditions.
Environ Sci Technol 2015;49:7348–55.
CrossRef Shields JM, Hill VR, Arrowood MJ, Beach MJ.
Inactivation of Cryptosporidium parvum under chlorinated recreational water conditions.
J Water Health 2008;6:513–20.
CrossRef CDC.
Stay safe in and around swimming pools.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2011.
 Trust for Public Land.
2011 city park facts.
San Francisco, CA; 2011.
 * At the CDC-recommended pH of 7.2–7.8, CDC recommends maintaining free available chlorine at a minimum of 3ppm in hot tubs/spas and 1 ppm in other aquatic venues or free available bromine at a minimum of 4 ppm in hot tubs/spas and 3 ppm in other aquatic venues.
† Entrapment occurs when a body part (e.g., hair, limb, or buttocks) or something on the swimmer’s body (e.g., jewelry or bathing suit) becomes caught in the suction of the recirculation pump or in an underwater structure.
§ The regulatory module ultimately was not included within the MAHC because its content was intended as guidance for state and local environmental health aquatic inspection programs rather than as guidance on the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of public aquatics facilities.
Fourteen Model Aquatic Health Code modules Contamination burden Disinfection and water quality Facility design and construction Facility maintenance and operation Fecal/vomit/blood contamination response Hygiene facilities Lifeguarding and bather supervision Monitoring and testing Operator training Preface, user guide, and definitions Recirculation systems and filtration Regulatory Risk management/safety Ventilation and air quality Top MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos La natación y su salud Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Nadar de manera saludable y segura Responder a contaminación Kit de herramientas VER TODO Temas relacionados: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Ver todo Para todos 22 DE MAYO DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) Emergencias con productos químicos para piscinas VISTAZO GENERAL Las lesiones causadas por productos químicos para piscinas representan aproximadamente 4500 visitas a la sala de emergencias cada año.
Al menos un tercio de los pacientes tienen menos de 18 años.
Cree un plan de respuesta a emergencias para saber qué hacer antes, durante y después de una emergencia con productos químicos para piscinas.
Planificación de respuesta Cree un plan de respuesta a emergencias que incluya: Un procedimiento para limpieza de derrames Una respuesta a incidentes con productos químicos y a exposiciones Una cadena de mando clara y sustitutos con información de contacto Un plan de evacuación Un plan de comunicación para alertar a los usuarios, al personal y al personal de respuesta a emergencias Capacite al personal de centros acuáticos sobre los procedimientos en el plan de respuesta a emergencias.
Mantenga una copia del plan de respuesta a emergencias cerca (por ejemplo, en el pasillo justo afuera) del área de almacenamiento de productos químicos, la sala de bombeo y el área de la piscina, y asegúrese de que haya otra copia disponible en un lugar alejado en caso de evacuación.
Asegúrese de que las hojas de datos de seguridad estén al día y sean fáciles de acceder para el personal de respuesta en caso de evacuación.
Tenga un teléfono con números de emergencia actualizados cerca (por ejemplo, en el pasillo justo afuera) del área de almacenamiento de productos químicos, la sala de bombeo y el área de la piscina, y asegúrese de que también haya un teléfono disponible en un lugar alejado en caso de evacuación.
Practique la respuesta a emergencias con el personal de respuesta.
Durante un incidente Active su plan de respuesta a emergencias durante un incidente.
Para los lugares en interiores, si se liberan vapores químicos en el área de almacenamiento de productos químicos, la sala de bombeo o el área de la piscina: Si el sistema de manejo de aire correspondiente está separado de otras áreas de la edificación: deje el sistema de HVAC prendido para que ventile.
Si el sistema de manejo de aire correspondiente se comparte con otras áreas de la edificación: apague el sistema de HVAC de inmediato.
Después de un incidente Documente el incidente y la respuesta y notifíquelos a los funcionarios locales o estatales de otorgamiento de permisos.
(Los funcionarios locales o estatales de otorgamiento de permisos deben considerar revisar las reglamentaciones de salud pública en respuesta a los informes de lesiones causadas por productos químicos para piscinas para reducir la probabilidad futura de estos eventos).
Realice un análisis posterior al incidente con todas las partes involucradas en la respuesta.
Modifique el plan de respuesta a emergencias según sea necesario.
EN ESTA PÁGINA Planificación de respuesta Durante un incidente Después de un incidente PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Kit de herramientas Operación de piscinas La operación de piscinas Químicos para piscinas Guía para los lugares para surfear VER TODO Healthy Swimming La natación y su salud FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
DNPAO State and Local Programs EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health State and Local Programs DNPAO State and Local Funding Public Health Strategy State and Local Resources Practitioner's Guide Success Stories State Health Equity Toolkit Data and Statistics VIEW ALL Related Topics: Obesity | Nutrition | About Physical Activity View All JANUARY 30, 2025 Health Status Data AT A GLANCE These data sources can help identify and address health gaps so everyone has the opportunity to be as healthy as possible (defined as health equity).
Data Sources Data, Trends, and Maps offers state and national indicators.
Topics include obesity/weight status, breastfeeding, fruits and vegetables, physical activity, sugary drinks, and television viewing.
For health equity data, choose race/ethnicity or other demographic in the "View by" field.
Social Vulnerability Index identifies communities that may need support before, during, or after disasters or outbreaks.
Social vulnerability may indicate health disparities.
Community Resilience Estimates refer to the capacity of individuals and households to absorb, endure, and recover from the health, social, and economic effects of a disaster.
Low resilience may indicate health disparities.
Chronic Disease Indicators provide data for 18 categories across various risk factors for diseases.
For health equity data, choose race/ethnicity or sex in the "View by" field.
Aerobic and Muscle-Strengthening Physical Activity by Race/Ethnicity Across Income Levels reports trends among US adults, 1998–2018.
Minority Population Profiles include demographic, education, economic, insurance coverage, and health status information.
United States Diabetes Surveillance System provides data by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and education.
PLACES: Local Data for Better Health includes chronic disease measures by location.
Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities shows changes in disparities during the Healthy People 2020 tracking period.
An interactive chart and table can be filtered by topic area and population characteristics, including sex, race and ethnicity, educational attainment, family income, disability status, and geographic location.
KEEP READING: Health Equity Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE DNPAO Programs CDC's Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO) supports 3 programs to improve nutrition, increase physical activity, and prevent obesity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pinworm Infection EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention Diagnosing Pinworms VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview VIEW ALL View All PARASITES Health Care Providers FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Clinical Overview of Pinworm infection KEY POINTS Mebendazole and albendazole are available for prescription to treat pinworm.
Pyrantel pamoate is available without prescription.
Consider safety precautions of medications in different populations.
Prevention In addition to treatment, strict adherence to proper hand hygiene is the most effective way to prevent pinworm infection and spread.
Advise household members and other contacts (school and playmates) to also follow good hygiene practices, including recommendations for bathing and laundering of clothing and bedding.
Control can be difficult in childcare centers, schools, and other facilities because the rate of repeat infections is high.
In facilities or institutions, mass and simultaneous treatment, repeated in two weeks, can be effective.
Testing The most common diagnostic test for pinworm infection is the "tape test".
Be prepared to provide collection and storage instructions to patients and caregivers.
Emphasize the importance of hand hygiene to prevent further spread.
Healthcare providers generally do not collect other specimens or conduct other tests (e.g., stool samples, urine samples, vaginal swabs, anorectal swabs) because these types of samples usually don't contain enough worms or eggs to easily detect.
Occasionally, adult worms may be found incidentally on colonoscopies or in intestinal biopsies.
There are no blood tests to diagnose pinworm.
Symptoms Most people have no symptoms or signs of a pinworm infection.
If a person does, it typically itching in the perianal region.
Occasionally, invasion of the female genital tract can occur causing inflammation of the vulva and vagina with rare inflammatory reactions occurring in the pelvis or peritoneum.
Appendicitis has been associated with pinworm infection in rare cases.
Treatment and recovery The medications used for the treatment of pinworm are either mebendazole, pyrantel pamoate, or albendazole.
Pyrantel pamoate is available without prescription.
Treatment involves two doses of medication with the second dose given two weeks after the first dose.
The medications kill worms but cannot kill eggs.
The second dose is important to prevent infection by newly hatched adult worms that were not killed by the first treatment because they were still eggs.
Health practitioners and parents should weigh the health risks and benefits of these drugs for patients under two years of age.
Drug Dosage and duration Notes Mebendazole Adults and children: 100 mg orally; repeat in two weeks Pyrantel pamoate Adults and children: 11 mg/kg orally (maximum 1 g); repeat in two weeks Available in oral suspension, capsules, or chewable tablets.
Albendazole Adults and children: 400 mg orally once; repeat in two weeks Take on an empty stomach.
Oral mebendazole, oral pyrantel pamoate, and oral albendazole are all available for human use in the United States.
The safety of drugs used to treat pinworm have not been studied for pregnant women.
If the pinworm infection is compromising the pregnancy (i.e., weight loss, sleeplessness) then treatment can be considered, but it should be withheld until the 3rd trimester when the risk, if any, to the fetus is likely to be reduced.
Breastfeeding should not be withheld during mebendazole therapy.
Only about 2% – 10% of an oral dose is absorbed, and the amounts of the drug excreted in milk are below the level of detection and appear to be clinically insignificant.
Excretion in breast milk of the other drugs used to treat pinworm is not as well characterized.
Care precautions Mebendazole Treatment in Pregnancy Mebendazole is a pregnancy category C drug.
Data on the use of mebendazole in pregnant women are limited.
The available evidence suggests no difference in congenital anomalies in the children of women treated with mebendazole during mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns compared with those who were not.
In MDA campaigns in countries where soil-transmitted helminths are common, World Health Organization (WHO) has determined that the benefits of treatment outweigh the risks and WHO allows use of mebendazole in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters of pregnancy.
However, in a pregnant woman infected with a soil-transmitted helminth, balance the risks of treatment for the fetus with the risks of disease progression in the woman in the absence of treatment.
Pregnancy Category C: Either studies in animals have revealed adverse effects on the fetus (teratogenic or embryocidal, or other) plus there are no controlled studies in women, or studies in women and animals are not available.
Prescribe mebendazole only if the potential benefits to the woman justify the potential risks to the fetus.
Treatment during lactation Mebendazole is minimally excreted in breast milk.
WHO classifies mebendazole as compatible with breastfeeding and allows its use in lactating women.
Treatment in pediatric patients The safety of mebendazole in children is unclear.
There are limited data in children under 2 years old.
The WHO Model List of Essential Medicines for Children lists mebendazole as an intestinal anthelminthic medicine that can be used for children older than 2 years of age.
Pyrantel Pamoate Treatment in Pregnancy Pyrantel pamoate is a pregnancy category C drug.
Data on the use of ivermectin in pregnant women are limited.
In mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns for which the World Health Organization (WHO) has determined that the benefits of treatment outweigh the risks, WHO allows use of pyrantel pamoate in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters of pregnancy.
However, in a pregnant woman infected with a soil-transmitted helminth, balance the risks of treatment for the fetus with the risks of disease progression in the woman the absence of treatment.
Pregnancy Category C: Either studies in animals have revealed adverse effects on the fetus (teratogenic or embryocidal, or other) plus there are no controlled studies in women, or studies in women and animals are not available.
Prescribe pyrantel pamoate only if the potential benefits justify the potential risks to the fetus.
Treatment during lactation It is not known whether pyrantel pamoate is excreted in breast milk.
The WHO classifies pyrantel pamoate as compatible with breastfeeding, although data on the use of pyrantel pamoate during lactation are limited.
Treatment in pediatric patients The safety of pyrantel pamoate in children is unclear.
According to the WHO guidance on preventative chemotherapy, children aged one year and older may use pyrantel during MDA campaigns without diagnosis.
The WHO Model List of Essential Medicines for Children lists pyrantel pamoate as an intestinal anthelminthic medicine that can be use in children one year of age and older.
Albendazole Treatment in Pregnancy Albendazole is a pregnancy category C drug.
There are limited data on the use of albendazole in pregnant women.
The available evidence suggests no difference in congenital abnormalities in the children of women accidentally treated with albendazole during mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns compared with those who were not.
In MDA campaigns for which the World Health Organization (WHO) has determined that the benefits of treatment outweigh the risks, WHO allows use of albendazole in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters of pregnancy.
However, healthcare providers should balance the risks of treatment for the fetus with the risks of disease progression in the woman in the absence of treatment.
Pregnancy Category C: Either studies in animals have revealed adverse effects on the fetus (teratogenic or embryocidal, or other) plus there are no controlled studies in women, or studies in women and animals are not available.
Prescribe albendazole only if the potential benefits to the woman justify the potential risks to the fetus.
Treatment during lactation Albendazole is minimally excreted in human milk.
WHO has concluded that a single oral dose of albendazole can be given to lactating women.
Treatment in pediatric patients The safety of albendazole in children less than 6 years old is not certain.
Studies of the use of albendazole in children as young as one year old suggest that it is safe.
According to WHO guidelines for MDA campaigns, children as young as one year of age (able to safely swallow tablets) can take albendazole.
These campaigns have treated many children under six years old with albendazole, albeit at a reduced dose.
ON THIS PAGE Prevention Testing Symptoms Treatment and recovery Care precautions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pinworm Infection Pinworm infection is caused by small, thin, white parasitic roundworms.
Ir al contenido del sitio Ir a la búsqueda Ir a En Esta Página Un sitio oficial del Gobierno de Estados Unidos Así es como usted puede verificarlo The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Healthy Swimming EXPLORAR ESTE TEMA BUSCAR Para todos La natación y su salud Cómo prevenir las enfermedades relacionadas con la natación y la recreación en el agua Nadar de manera saludable y segura Responder a contaminación Kit de herramientas VER TODO Temas relacionados: The Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC): A Model Public Swimming Pool and Spa Code Ver todo Guía para los lugares para surfear Para todos 24 DE JUN.
DEL 2025 ENGLISH (US) LO QUE DEBE SABER Los lugares para surfear han surgido como una forma nueva e innovadora de disfrutar de las actividades acuáticas recreativas.
Estos lugares presentan desafíos característicos que no se pueden abordar de la misma manera que una piscina común.
Esta guía provisional se basa en las directrices del Comité Específico de Lugares para Surfear organizado por el Consejo para el Código de Salud Acuática Modelo (CMAHC, por sus siglas en inglés) en enero del 2024, y aborda problemas de salud y seguridad asociados a lugares para surfear que los profesionales del sector acuático y la salud pública ambiental deben considerar cuando se proponen para sus jurisdicciones.
Información general Los lugares para surfear han surgido como una forma nueva e innovadora de disfrutar de las actividades acuáticas recreativas.
Estos lugares acuáticos grandes (p.
ej., con una superficie que va desde un cuarto de acre hasta varios acres) presentan desafíos característicos que no se pueden abordar de la misma manera que una piscina común.
Muchos de estos lugares están operando en los Estados Unidos, y hay planes para construir más en el futuro.
Esta guía provisional aborda problemas de salud y seguridad que los profesionales del sector acuático y la salud pública ambiental deben considerar cuando se proponen estos lugares para sus jurisdicciones.
Esta guía se basa en la información científica actual y las mejores prácticas, y ofrece recomendaciones específicas para los lugares de surf en cuanto a diseño, construcción, operación y manejo.
Las recomendaciones garantizan la filtración, la desinfección y el manejo adecuados del agua e identifican formas de reducir el riesgo de enfermedades y lesiones, como ahogamiento.
A menos que se indique a continuación, consulte el Código de Salud Acuática Modelo de los CDC (MAHC, por sus siglas en inglés) para obtener orientación sobre el diseño, la construcción, las operaciones y el manejo de piscinas públicas y otros lugares acuáticos.
Definiciones Batimetría es el estudio de la forma y pendiente de la cuenca del fondo del lugar para surfear, las cuales son componentes fundamentales para generar olas viajeras y para surfear en estos lugares.
Surf nocturno significa surfear en un lugar para surfear desde 30 minutos antes del atardecer hasta 30 minutos después del amanecer o durante periodos de baja iluminación.
Surf preoperativo significa surfear después de la primera inspección preoperativa y antes de las inspecciones preoperativas subsiguientes y la apertura al público, para ayudar a los diseñadores y constructores a ajustar las olas, etc., antes de entregar el lugar para surfear al dueño.
Lugar para surfear significa un lugar acuático grande (p.
ej., con una superficie que va desde un cuarto de acre hasta varios acres) dedicado al surf en una tabla o en otro dispositivo similar para surfear o montar olas, con batimetría y equipo que generan olas viajeras y para surfear (imitando aquellas en el mar), y usado solo por surfistas (es decir, no por bañistas).
Surfista significa una persona en un lugar para surfear que tiene contacto con el agua, ya sea a través del rocío o por inmersión parcial o total, hace surf en una tabla o en otro dispositivo similar para surfear o montar olas, y puede estar expuesta a agua contaminada o puede contaminar el agua.
Diseño y construcción Diseño y construcción Es probable que las normas requeridas para los lugares para surfear sean distintas de las de las piscinas comunes.
Una autoridad con jurisdicción (AHJ, por sus siglas en inglés) podría requerir que se presente y se revise un plan, o podría requerir variaciones.
También se podría requerir una revisión de un plan o variaciones para cualquier renovación significativa de un lugar para surfear.
Los CDC recomiendan cumplir con las siguientes directrices respecto a estos lugares, siempre y cuando no contradigan las normas de las autoridades con jurisdicción: Diseño y construcción Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden proporcionar un mecanismo alternativo para presentar planos detallados a escala y dimensionales de lugares para surfear, si incluyen propiedad intelectual.
El informe de diseño del lugar para surfear presentado para su aprobación debe incluir un modelo de dinámica de fluidos computacional (CFD, por sus siglas en inglés) para cada lugar, para demostrar la eliminación de zonas muertas.
Los planos de cada lugar para surfear deben incluir un esquema de los espacios de almacenamiento de productos químicos según lo establecido en la sección 4.1.2.2.6.
del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Especificaciones técnicas La ocupación máxima teórica puede no aplicar a los lugares para surfear.
Para cada lugar para surfear, la ocupación máxima de surfistas debe calcularse dividiendo el área de superficie acuática accesible para los surfistas por el factor de densidad del lugar para surfear.
Factor de densidad del lugar para surfear = 1000 pies cuadrados (92.8 metros cuadrados) de superficie acuática accesible para los surfistas por cada surfista.
Los materiales orgánicos, según lo establecido en la sección 4.2.1.10 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, deben estar prohibidos como acabado interior de un lugar para surfear.
Equipos Donde sea aplicable, todo el equipo usado o propuesto para su uso, incluso el equipo específico para lugares para surfear (p.
ej., medidor de turbidez, y equipo generador de olas y controlador de biopelículas), debe cumplir con la sección 4.3.1–4.3.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Todo el equipo debe ser diseñado, instalado, operado y manejado de tal manera que no presente una posibilidad de atrapamiento o lesiones.
Análisis de la calidad del agua Los lugares para surfear deben usar medidores de turbidez para analizar la claridad del agua en toda el área y de manera continua.
Los lugares para surfear podrían estar exentos de la sección 4.5.1.2.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona el análisis de la claridad del agua desde la plataforma (deck) alrededor del lugar para surfear.
Si se usa una baldosa de referencia o una salida principal de succión para ayudar a analizar la claridad del agua en un lugar para surfear, entonces la baldosa de referencia o las salidas principales de succión deben ser visibles hasta 30 pies (9.2 metros) de distancia en línea directa desde la superficie del agua cuando esté en un estado no turbulento y las burbujas hayan tenido tiempo para disiparse.
Los lugares para surfear podrían estar exentos de los parámetros para la pendiente del fondo mencionados en las secciones 4.5.2.1-4.5.2.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, excepto en áreas designadas para acceso o salida.
Los lugares para surfear podrían estar exentos de la sección 4.5.2.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona el drenaje sin dejar charcos o agua estancada acumulada.
Acceso y salida de los lugares para surfear Los lugares para surfear pueden estar exentos de los parámetros de acceso y salida mencionados en las secciones 4.5.3.1-4.5.3.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
El acceso a los lugares para surfear debe ser controlado.
Cada lugar para surfear debe tener al menos un punto de acceso designado conforme a la Ley sobre Estadounidenses con Discapacidades (ADA, por sus siglas en inglés).
Los pasamanos, requeridos por la Ley sobre Estadounidenses con Discapacidades para una entrada accesible, deben ser diseñados de tal manera que no presenten una posibilidad de atrapamiento o lesiones.
Entradas sin profundidad (con pendiente) Si se usan rejas de desagüe a lo largo de la zona sin profundidad de un lugar para surfear, las rejas deben cumplir con las secciones 4.5.9.3-4.5.9.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Un lugar para surfear podría estar exento de los parámetros para las rejas de desagüe en zonas sin profundidad mencionados en las secciones 4.5.9.3-4.5.9.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo si el sistema de recirculación demuestra suficiente recolección de escombros (skimming) superficial por otros medios.
Color y acabado El fondo y las paredes por debajo de la línea de agua deben ser de color blanco o pastel claro de tal manera que una persona sea visible en el fondo y el crecimiento de algas, los escombros, la suciedad y las grietas en el acabado de la superficie puedan ser identificados desde 30 pies (9.2 metros) de distancia en línea directa desde la superficie del agua cuando el agua esté en un estado no turbulento y las burbujas hayan tenido tiempo para disiparse.
Los lugares para surfear podrían estar exentos de la sección 4.5.11.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona el análisis de la visibilidad desde la plataforma (deck) alrededor del lugar para surfear.
Bancos y plataformas sumergidos, y bares a los que se llega nadando Los bancos sumergidos deben estar prohibidos en los lugares para surfear.
Las plataformas sumergidas deben estar prohibidas en los lugares para surfear.
Los bares a los que se llega nadando deben estar prohibidos en los lugares para surfear.
Marcadores y marcas de profundidad Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de las secciones 4.5.19.5-4.5.19.5.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que requiere marcas de profundidad en los cambios de pendiente del fondo.
Los lugares para surfear deben tener un marcador con el rango de profundidades del agua y un marcador de "no se permite tirarse de cabeza" en un letrero en cada punto de acceso controlado.
Estos marcadores deben ser claramente visibles para las personas que acceden al lugar para surfear.
Todas las letras y símbolos deben ser como para otros tipos de marcadores de profundidad.
Iluminación Para el surf preoperativo, el nivel mínimo de iluminación de la superficie del agua en los lugares para surfear debe mantenerse de la siguiente manera: 4 a 8 pies-candela horizontales (43 a 86 lux) para aguas poco profundas, 6 a 8 pies-candela horizontales (65 a 86 lux) para profundidades medias y 10 a 12 pies-candela horizontales (108 a 129 lux) para aguas profundas.
Los niveles mínimos específicos de iluminación en el agua superficial y bajo el agua en los lugares para surfear deben establecerse durante el surf preoperativo de tal manera que una persona sea visible en el fondo desde 30 pies (9.2 metros) de distancia en línea directa desde la superficie del agua cuando el agua esté en un estado no turbulento y las burbujas hayan tenido tiempo para disiparse.
Tasas de flujo y tasas de recambio Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de las secciones 4.7.1.10-4.7.1.10.1 y 4.7.1.10.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona los parámetros de la tasa de flujo y el tiempo de recambio.
Filtros de medios granulares El agua de los lugares para surfear debe ser filtrada al menos como se detalla en las secciones 4.7.2.2.1-4.7.2.2.5 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Plataformas (decks) que rodean el lugar para surfear No se debería requerir una plataforma perimetral alrededor del 100 % del perímetro del lugar para surfear lugar para surfear.
Se debe proporcionar una plataforma perimetral donde los surfistas y el personal del centro acuático accedan al lugar para surfear.
Cualquier plataforma perimetral del lugar para surfear debe cumplir con las secciones 4.8.1.1–4.8.1.5.1.1.2 y 4.8.1.5.1.4–4.8.1.5.3.4 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Paredes en ala o penínsulas Los lugares para surfear pueden tener paredes en ala/penínsulas o islas únicamente para calmar las olas.
Las paredes en ala o islas no deben presentar una posibilidad de atrapamiento o lesión ni interferir con la operación adecuada del lugar para surfear.
Las paredes en ala/penínsulas o islas no deben ser usadas por salvavidas calificados ni surfistas.
Las paredes en ala/penínsulas e islas deben estar exentas de las secciones 4.8.1.6.1.2 y 4.8.1.7.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que requieren un acabado antideslizante, respectivamente.
Las paredes en ala/penínsulas e islas deben estar exentas de las secciones 4.8.1.6.6 y 4.8.1.7.4-4.8.17.5 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que requieren marcadores de profundidad, respectivamente.
Acceso El acceso al lugar para surfear debe ser controlado para prevenir y evitar las entradas no autorizadas.
Instalaciones higiénicas Una fuente de agua para beber, un inodoro y una estación de lavado de manos deben ubicarse a no más de 300 pies (91 metros) de distancia caminada desde cada punto de acceso controlado, si el lugar para surfear es usado solo por surfistas mayores de 5 años.
Una fuente de agua para beber, un inodoro, una estación de lavado de manos y un área para cambiar pañales deben ubicarse a no más de 200 pies (61 metros) de distancia caminada desde cada punto de acceso controlado, si el lugar para surfear es usado por niños menores de 5 años.
Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de las secciones 4.10.4.2.1-4.10.4.2.1.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que fundamenta la cantidad de duchas necesarias según el área superficial del lugar acuático.
Se debe proporcionar un mínimo de 1 ducha para limpieza por sexo o 2 duchas unisex para limpieza por cada 5 personas hasta superar el total de la capacidad máxima de surfistas del lugar y la cantidad máxima de personal del centro acuático cuyas tareas incluyen entrar al agua en un turno dado.
Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de la sección 4.10.4.3.5 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que requiere proporcionar 4 cabezales de ducha para las duchas para enjuagarse por cada 50 pies (15.2 metros) de entrada a la playa.
Se debe ubicar un mínimo de 1 ducha para enjuagarse en cada punto de acceso controlado.
Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de la sección 4.10.4.4 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que asigna un porcentaje específico de cabezales destinados a las duchas para limpieza y las duchas para enjuagarse.
Cuerdas comunes y flotantes El lugar para surfear debe estar equipado con una cuerda común y flotante para restringir el acceso al pozo de cimentación si así lo requiere el fabricante del equipo del lugar para surfear.
Las cuerdas comunes y flotantes no deben aplicar a los lugares para surfear según se indica en la sección 4.5.19.5.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Seguridad Se debe proporcionar un mínimo de dos interruptores de apagado de emergencia para desactivar la acción de las olas.
Estos interruptores deben estar claramente etiquetados y ser fácilmente accesibles para los salvavidas calificados.
El interruptor principal de apagado debe ubicarse en un punto constantemente atendido por un salvavidas calificado.
Los interruptores secundarios deben ubicarse para maximizar la eficacia del plan de seguridad.
Operación y manejo Operaciones Surf preoperativo El surf preoperativo en el lugar para surfear debe estar prohibido hasta que una inspección aprobada por las autoridades con jurisdicción demuestre que la instalación acuática, incluido el lugar para surfear, cumple con los requisitos.
La apertura al público del lugar para surfear debe estar prohibida hasta que suceda lo siguiente: Los ajustes necesarios después del surf preoperativo se hayan completado, y una inspección aprobada por las autoridades con jurisdicción demuestre que la instalación acuática, incluido el lugar para surfear, cumple con los requisitos.
Si el lugar para surfear no está abierto al público y drenado como se detalla en las secciones 5.4.1.1-5.4.1.1.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, se debe prevenir la formación de charcos o acumulación de agua estancada a través de lo siguiente: Medidas permanentes (p.
ej., modificar la batimetría) cuando esté cerrado de manera permanente, o medidas temporales (p.
ej., bombas de sumidero) cuando esté cerrado temporalmente.
Estructura de los lugares para surfear Los marcadores de rango de profundidad y los marcadores de "no se permite tirarse de cabeza" deben mantenerse en cada punto de acceso controlado.
Los sistemas de iluminación deben mantenerse como se describió anteriormente.
Los lugares para surfear podrían estar exentos de la sección 5.6.1.1.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que requiere iluminación para que el desagüe principal sea visible desde la orilla del agua.
El lugar para surfear no debe estar abierto si los niveles de luz son tales que una persona en el fondo no es visible desde 30 pies (9.2 metros) de distancia en línea directa desde la superficie del agua cuando el agua está en un estado no turbulento y las burbujas han tenido tiempo para disiparse.
El dueño u operador del lugar para surfear debe asegurarse de que se evalúen las condiciones de resplandor para los salvavidas calificados asignados a surfistas específicos, de modo que estos salvavidas puedan observar continuamente a los surfistas asignados en todo el recinto durante las horas operativas.
El surf nocturno debe estar prohibido a menos que se proporcionen niveles de luz como se describió anteriormente.
La integridad de la cubierta debe ser monitoreada para detectar fallas.
Recirculación y tratamiento del agua La frecuencia de las olas no debe ser menor (pero puede ser mayor) que la frecuencia de olas en el modelo de dinámica de fluidos computacional usado para demostrar la eliminación de zonas muertas, si se necesita acción de las olas para eliminar estas zonas.
Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de las secciones 5.7.1.9-5.7.1.9.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona los parámetros de la tasa de flujo y de recambio.
Está prohibido combinar los sistemas de recirculación y tratamiento del agua del lugar para surfear con los sistemas de recirculación y tratamiento de cualquier otro lugar acuático.
El agua de los lugares para surfear debe ser filtrada al menos como se detalla en las secciones 5.7.2.1-5.7.2.2.6 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Se prohíbe el uso de tinturas en el agua.
La concentración del desinfectante principal debe mantenerse como se detalla en las secciones 5.7.3.1-5.7.3.1.2.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
La concentración de ácido cianúrico debe permanecer en 15 ppm o por debajo de ese nivel.
Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden considerar disminuir la concentración mínima de DPD-FC (concentración de cloro libre determinada por métodos de prueba basados en N,N-dietil-p-fenilendiamina) a 0.5 ppm, solo cuando se generen olas, se cumplan todos los parámetros del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo para lugares para surfear y se cumplan los siguientes parámetros: --No se deben usar ni el ácido cianúrico (CYA, por sus siglas en inglés) ni el cloro estabilizado y la concentración del ácido cianúrico debe permanecer en 0 ppm; --se debe usar un tratamiento secundario; --se debe aumentar la frecuencia del monitoreo del agua a cada 2 horas mientras esté abierto al público; y --se deben exceder los parámetros de filtración mencionados en las secciones 5.7.2.1 a 5.7.2.2.6 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
--Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden volver a establecer la concentración mínima de DPD-FC en 1.0 ppm, si ocurre una transmisión de patógenos u otras amenazas para la salud pública con una concentración mínima de DPD-FC de 0.5 ppm.
Recolección y análisis de muestras de agua Los lugares para surfear deben estar exentos de las secciones 5.7.4.3.2 a 5.7.4.3.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo que mencionan la ubicación de la toma de muestras.
Las muestras de agua deben recolectarse según lo detallado en el plan de monitoreo del agua.
Calidad del agua Las lecturas de turbidez deben registrarse al mismo tiempo que se hacen las pruebas de DPD-FC o bromo total y de pH.
Los lugares para surfear pueden estar exentos de la sección 5.7.6.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona el análisis de la claridad del agua desde la plataforma alrededor del lugar para surfear.
Si se usa una baldosa de referencia o una salida principal de succión para ayudar a analizar la claridad del agua, entonces la baldosa de referencia o las salidas principales de succión deben ser visibles hasta 30 pies (9.2 metros) de distancia en línea directa desde la superficie del agua cuando esté en un estado no turbulento y las burbujas hayan tenido tiempo para disiparse.
Equipos de los salvavidas y relacionados con la seguridad Se deben proporcionar y estar disponibles en cada punto de acceso controlado chalecos salvavidas gratuitos aprobados por la Guardia Costera de los Estados Unidos que tengan un tamaño adecuado y estén bien ajustados.
Políticas y administración Capacitación y contratación de personal Para ser reconocido como un encargado calificado de lugares para surfear por las autoridades con jurisdicción, un encargado debe completar con éxito: Un curso de capacitación para encargados según lo descrito en las secciones 6.1.1-6.1.3.13 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, y capacitación en los siguientes temas: --Leyes y prácticas de seguridad química específicas para el almacenamiento y manejo de grandes cantidades de productos químicos en el lugar, --biopelícula, qué es y cómo debe ser controlada, y --medidor de turbidez y generación de olas, control de biopelículas o cualquier otro equipo y características únicas del lugar para surfear.
Cada lugar para surfear debe tener al menos un encargado calificado en el lugar cuando esté abierto para surfear.
Para ser reconocido por las autoridades con jurisdicción como un salvavidas calificado de lugares para surfear, un salvavidas debe: Completar exitosamente la capacitación según lo descrito en las secciones 6.2.1.1-6.2.1.3.8 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo o un curso de salvavidas en aguas abiertas aprobado por las autoridades con jurisdicción, poseer un certificado actualizado de esta capacitación, y completar exitosamente: los requisitos previos al servicio según lo descrito en las secciones 6.3.3.3-6.3.3.3.6.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo y los requisitos durante el servicio según lo descrito en las secciones 6.3.3.4-6.3.3.4.5 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, o los requisitos previos al servicio y durante el servicio según lo descrito por el curso de salvavidas en aguas abiertas aprobado por las autoridades con jurisdicción.
Los salvavidas calificados deben ser asignados como se describe en las secciones 6.3.4.3-6.3.4.3.5 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Se pueden asignar salvavidas adicionales calificados a surfistas específicos para que estos salvavidas los puedan observar continuamente.
Planes de respuesta a emergencias Se pueden incluir vehículos acuáticos como parte del plan de seguridad.
Se debe prohibir el uso de vehículos acuáticos propulsados por motores de combustión interna.
El plan para casos de liberación accidental de productos químicos debe incluir procedimientos según lo descrito en la sección 6.3.4.5.6.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Monitoreo del agua Se debe crear e implementar un plan de monitoreo del agua.
Como mínimo, el plan debe hacer lo siguiente: Establecer puntos de recolección de muestras de agua a lo largo del lugar para surfear, para que los resultados de los análisis proporcionen una documentación representativa de la calidad del agua.
Documentar por escrito los procedimientos de monitoreo del agua, como la recolección de muestras y los procedimientos de análisis del agua, e incluir un esquema de dónde se deben recolectar las muestras (p.
ej., con coordenadas del sistema de posicionamiento global).
Capacitar al personal del centro acuático asignado a las tareas de monitoreo del agua sobre los procedimientos.
Informar a este personal sobre cualquier actualización del plan.
El plan de monitoreo del agua debe mantenerse archivado en la instalación acuática.
Los elementos detallados en el plan de monitoreo del agua deben ser implementados y estar en evidencia en la operación del lugar para surfear y están sujetos a revisión para el cumplimiento por parte de las autoridades con jurisdicción en cualquier momento.
Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden requerir la presentación del plan de monitoreo del agua para su revisión y aprobación antes de abrir el lugar para surfear al público o para archivarlo y usarlo como referencia.
Plan de control de biopelículas Se debe crear e implementar un plan de control de biopelículas.
Como mínimo, el plan debe hacer lo siguiente: Documentar por escrito los procedimientos de control de biopelículas para todas las superficies del lugar para surfear, que incluya: ----Las superficies accesibles: inspeccionar diariamente y mantenerlas libres de biopelículas según lo descrito en las secciones 5.6.10.4.2, 5.6.10.6.1 y 6.4.1.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
----Las superficies inaccesibles.
Capacitar al personal del centro acuático asignado a las tareas de control de biopelículas sobre los procedimientos, e informar a este personal sobre cualquier actualización al plan.
El plan de control de biopelículas debe mantenerse archivado en la instalación acuática.
Los elementos detallados en el plan de control de biopelículas deben ser implementados y estar en evidencia en la operación del lugar para surfear y están sujetos a revisión para el cumplimiento por parte de las autoridades con jurisdicción en cualquier momento.
Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden requerir la presentación del plan de control de biopelículas para su revisión y aprobación antes de abrir el lugar para surfear al público o para archivarlo y usarlo como referencia.
Plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales Se debe crear y documentar por escrito un plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales.
El dueño o encargado debe contratar a contratistas para implementar el plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales o el personal debe implementar el plan.
Si se trata de este último caso: Capacite al personal del centro acuático asignado a las tareas de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales sobre los procedimientos, e informe a este personal sobre cualquier actualización del plan.
El plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales debe mantenerse archivado en la instalación acuática.
Si se contratan contratistas para implementar el plan, el contrato debe mantenerse en archivo en la instalación acuática.
Los elementos detallados en el plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales deben ser implementados y estar en evidencia en la operación del lugar para surfear y están sujetos a revisión para el cumplimiento por parte de las autoridades con jurisdicción en cualquier momento.
Las autoridades con jurisdicción pueden requerir la presentación del plan de control de contaminación ambiental y por animales para su revisión y aprobación antes de abrir el lugar para surfear al público o para archivarlo y usarlo como referencia.
Plan de respuesta a la contaminación por heces, vómitos o sangre El encargado debe cumplir con las secciones 6.5.2.1-6.5.2.2.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona cómo responder si ocurre una contaminación fecal o por vómito en el agua del lugar para surfear.
El encargado debe cumplir con las secciones 6.5.2.1-6.5.3.1.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona cómo responder a la contaminación por heces formadas, si se sospecha al menos que el lugar para surfear está asociado con un brote causado por Giardia u otro patógeno con un valor de inactivación por contacto menor o igual al de Giardia.
El encargado debe cumplir con las siguientes secciones: 6.5.2.1-6.5.2.3 y 6.5.3.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona cómo responder a la contaminación diarreica para hiperclorar, si se sospecha al menos que el lugar para surfear está asociado con un brote causado por Cryptosporidium y no tiene ácido cianúrico detectable.
6.5.2.1-6.5.2.3 y 6.5.3.2 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, que menciona cómo responder a la contaminación diarreica para hiperclorar, si se sospecha al menos que el lugar para surfear está asociado con un brote causado por Cryptosporidium y tiene de 1-15 ppm de ácido cianúrico.
La frecuencia de inspección debe establecerse según lo descrito en la sección 6.6.1.3 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo.
Frecuencia de inspección El encargado debe corregir las violaciones o cerrar inmediatamente el lugar para surfear si se identifica cualquiera de los peligros inminentes para la salud como se describe en la sección 6.6.3.1 del Código de Salud Acuática Modelo, números 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 o 20, o si se identifica cualquiera de los siguientes peligros inminentes para la salud: No se proporcionan las concentraciones mínimas de desinfectante (es decir, cloro libre o bromo total) como se mencionó anteriormente para lugares para surfear, ausencia de cualquier equipo salvavidas requerido, la turbidez del agua excede 5 NTUs, marcadores de profundidad o de marcadores de "no se permite tirarse de cabeza" incorrectos o faltantes en cualquier punto de acceso controlado, o la cantidad de surfistas excede la ocupación máxima permitida.
EN ESTA PÁGINA Información general Definiciones Diseño y construcción Operación y manejo PÁGINAS RELACIONADAS Kit de herramientas Operación de piscinas La operación de piscinas Químicos para piscinas Emergencias para piscinas VER TODO Healthy Swimming Emergencias para piscinas FUENTES IMPRIMIR COMPARTIR Healthy Swimming CDC’s Healthy Swimming website provides information on how to have healthy and safe swimming experiences while minimizing illness and injury.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities Print An overarching goal of Healthy People 2020 (HP2020) is to achieve health equity, eliminate disparities, and improve the health of all groups.
To provide an overview of health disparities for the Healthy People 2020 Final Review, changes in disparities during the HP2020 tracking period were assessed for a subset of objectives by selected population characteristics.
These population characteristics were: sex, race and ethnicity, educational attainment, family income, disability status, and geographic location.
Data showing the percentage of objectives in each of the disparities change categories (decrease, little or no detectable change, and increase) are provided below in an interactive chart and table, and can be filtered by HP2020 topic area(s) and population characteristic(s).
If multiple topic areas are chosen, the data will be combined across these selections.
Changes in disparities for objectives during the tracking period were assessed for each population characteristic using two time points, defined as the baseline and final year(s) of data.
Note that the baseline and final years for each objective in the disparities analysis do not necessarily correspond to the HP2020 baseline and final years for the total population that were used in the HP2020 Progress Table or the Progress by Population Group analysis to evaluate target attainment.
To see data for additional years, visit the HP2020 website .
Information on the methods and calculations for the final disparities data is available in the footnotes below and in the accompanying Technical Notes for the Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities.
Access Datasets on Data.CDC.gov Footnotes The baseline and final years for each objective in the disparities analysis do not necessarily correspond to the baseline and final years for the total population that were used in the HP2020 Progress Table or the HP2020 Progress by Population Group analysis.
Additionally, the number of years between the baseline and final years for the disparities analysis varies by objective, reflecting differences in data collection periods across data sources used in HP2020 and population group availability for specific objectives.
The baseline and final years used in the disparities analysis are available for each objective in the downloadable data file.
The change in disparities for HP2020 objectives is defined as the difference between the disparity measure at the final data point and the disparity measure at the baseline data point.
The disparity measure used is either the summary rate ratio for population characteristics with three or more groups or the maximal rate ratio for population characteristics with two groups.
Data for some population groups did not meet the criteria for inclusion for specific objectives in the disparities analysis (for example, if data for the group were not available at both the baseline and final data point).
See the corresponding Technical Notes for the Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities for more information on these disparity measures and the criteria for how population groups, baseline, and final data years were selected for the disparities analysis.
Specific population groups included in the disparities analysis for each objective are included in the downloadable data file.
Changes in disparities in either the summary rate ratio or the maximal rate ratio were reported using three categories: decrease, little or no detectable change, or increase.
These categories were defined based on the following criteria: Decrease: Difference in the disparity measure between the final and baseline data year was negative and statistically significant when this could be assessed, or negative and greater than or equal to 0.10 (absolute value) when statistical significance could not be assessed.
Little or no detectable change: Difference in the disparity measure between the final and baseline data year was not statistically significant when this could be assessed, or less than 0.10 (absolute value) when statistical significance could not be assessed.
Increase: Difference in the disparity measure between the final and baseline data year was positive and statistically significant when this could be assessed, or positive and greater than or equal to 0.10 when statistical significance could not be assessed.
Suggested Citation National Center for Health Statistics.
Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities.
Healthy People 2020 Final Review.
DOI: 
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
DNPAO State and Local Programs EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health State and Local Programs DNPAO State and Local Funding Public Health Strategy State and Local Resources Practitioner's Guide Success Stories State Health Equity Toolkit Data and Statistics VIEW ALL Related Topics: Obesity | Nutrition | About Physical Activity View All Public Health FEBRUARY 27, 2025 State Health Equity Toolkit KEY POINTS This toolkit provides a six-step process for planning, implementing, and evaluating public health programs.
It is designed for public health practitioners implementing or planning to implement obesity interventions.
Download the toolkit State Health Equity Toolkit About the toolkit The State Health Equity Toolkit aims to increase the capacity of state health departments and their partners to work with and through communities.
The toolkit provides a six-step process for planning, implementing, and evaluating a program to address obesity disparities.
ON THIS PAGE Download the toolkit About the toolkit SOURCES PRINT SHARE DNPAO Programs CDC's Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO) supports 3 programs to improve nutrition, increase physical activity, and prevent obesity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
DNPAO State and Local Programs EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health State and Local Programs DNPAO State and Local Funding Public Health Strategy State and Local Resources Practitioner's Guide Success Stories State Health Equity Toolkit Data and Statistics VIEW ALL Related Topics: Obesity | Nutrition | About Physical Activity View All Public Health JANUARY 27, 2025 Success Stories AT A GLANCE These stories highlight work by state and local programs to encourage healthy eating, increase physical activity, and promote breastfeeding.
Nutrition Access to fruits and vegetables Madera County Farmers' Market Makes Healthy Food Accessible Farm Food Boxes Increase Food Access for Minnesota Veterans Pilot Program Increases Access to Healthier Food Choices in Shasta Lake Fresh Produce: A New Prescription for High Blood Pressure in Cuyahoga County, OH Food service guidelines Reducing Sodium in Hospital Food Service Operations Across Southern California Physical activity Community design Park Updates Promote Physical Activity for Tribal Nation Breastfeeding Workplace compliance Minnesota Launches New Program for Breastfeeding Support ON THIS PAGE Nutrition Physical activity Breastfeeding SOURCES PRINT SHARE DNPAO Programs CDC's Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO) supports 3 programs to improve nutrition, increase physical activity, and prevent obesity.
Processing math: 0% Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Technical Notes for the Healthy People 2020 Overview of Health Disparities Print The Healthy People 2020 (HP2020) Final Review includes an evaluation of how health disparities have changed over time during the HP2020 tracking period for 611 objectives.
The analysis included data on changes in disparities for the following six population characteristics: sex, race and ethnicity, educational attainment, family income, disability status, and geographic location.
This document provides technical information on the criteria used for population characteristics and data years in the analyses, and the measures used to compute disparities and changes over time.
Criteria for Including Objectives and Determining Baseline and Final Years for the Disparities Analysis The inclusion of objectives and the baseline and final years of data used for the disparities analysis was based on the following stepwise criteria.
The objectives had at least two nonoverlapping time points by sex, race and ethnicity, educational attainment, family income, disability status, or geographic location.
For specific population characteristics, the following criteria were additionally applied: Sex, disability status, and geographic location: An objective must include at least two identical groups for at least two nonoverlapping time points to be included in the analysis.
Race and Ethnicity: An objective must include the following “minimum set” of three groups for at least two nonoverlapping time points to be included in the analysis: White, not Hispanic or Latino, Black, not Hispanic or Latino, and Hispanic or Latino.
Educational attainment and family income: An objective must include at least three identical groups for at least two nonoverlapping time points to be included in the analysis.
Additionally, the objective was required to have data for the lowest and highest family income or educational attainment groups to be included, because these extremes were considered to likely have a large influence on driving disparities for many objectives (for example, less than 100% and 600% or greater than the poverty threshold for family income, and less than high school and advanced degree for educational attainment).
Given the variability in how these population characteristics were measured across HP2020 data sources, the specific groups that represent the lowest and highest categories differ across objectives in the analysis.
The earliest and latest years during the HP2020 tracking period that met the minimum set criteria listed in step 2 were used as the baseline and final years of the disparities analysis.
For race and ethnicity, educational attainment, family income, and geographic location, additional groups beyond the minimum number were included in the disparities analysis if they had data available at both the baseline and final years.
When possible (see next section), population groups included in disparities analyses were defined using mutually exclusive categories.
The baseline and final years used in the disparities analysis for different population characteristics within the same objective, and for the same population characteristic across objectives (even among those that have the same data source), may differ depending on population group reporting and data availability during the years in the HP2020 tracking period.
Additionally, after applying the criteria described, the baseline and final years for each objective in the disparities analysis do not necessarily correspond to the HP2020 baseline and final years for the total population that were used in the HP2020 Progress Table or the HP2020 Progress by Population Group analysis to evaluate target attainment.
The following table presents the number of objectives for each of the six population characteristics that were included in the disparities analysis.
Number of objectives for each population characteristic Population characteristic Number of objectives included in the disparities analysis1 Sex 529 Race and ethnicity 506 Educational attainment 223 Family income 292 Disability status 156 Geographic location 324 1 A total of 611 objectives with data that met the criteria for at least one of the six population characteristics were included in the disparities analysis.
The number of objectives with available data that met the inclusion criteria for each population characteristic individually is shown in this Table.
Data for selected informational objectives and measurable objectives that provided data as counts (as opposed to proportions or rates) were excluded from the disparities analysis.
Population Group Considerations for Race and Ethnicity in the Overview of Health Disparities Analysis For several HP2020 objectives, data were reported for racial and ethnic groups during the same year that were not mutually exclusive from each other.
The Overview of Health Disparities analyses were conducted using independent groups for race and ethnicity, using the following criteria for scenarios where this overlap in groups occurred.
Specifically, data for the separate groups Asian and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (with or without specification of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity, see below) were included when available, and were prioritized over data for the combined group Asian or Pacific Islander (API) when reported in the same year.
However, if an objective reported data for the combined API category and not Asian only and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander at the baseline and final year, the API data were then used for the disparities analysis instead.
The groups American Indian or Alaska Native, not Hispanic or Latino; Asian or Pacific Islander, not Hispanic or Latino; Asian, not Hispanic or Latino; Two or more races, not Hispanic or Latino; or Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, not Hispanic or Latino were used instead of American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian or Pacific Islander, Asian, Two or more races, or Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, respectively, when data by Hispanic origin were reported for those race groups at the baseline and final time points.
When data by Hispanic origin for those race groups were not available at the baseline and final time points, then data for the groups American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian or Pacific Islander, Asian, Two or more races, or Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander were used instead if available.
Some objectives only included data for the groups White or Black, with no specification of Hispanic ethnicity.
These objectives were not included in the assessment of disparities by race and ethnicity, given the potential for a high degree of overlap between the groups White or Black and Hispanic or Latino.
However, data for these groups are still provided in the Disparities Tool on the HP2020 website .
Statistical Measures and Formulas Used in the Overview of Health Disparities Analysis HP2020 has defined and applied a suite of measures to evaluate health disparities during the HP2020 tracking period.
The theoretical background and calculations pertaining to this suite of measures are discussed in Healthy People Statistical Note 27 (1).
The focus of the Overview of Health Disparities analysis was to quantify the change in disparities and assess the progress in eliminating health disparities over the HP2020 tracking period.
This section focuses on the measures and corresponding formulas that were used specifically for the change in disparities analysis.
Disparities data for individual HP2020 data years are available using the Disparities Tool on the HP2020 website , and in the Overview of Health Disparities downloadable data file for the baseline and final data year(s) included in this analysis.
Disparities calculations for baseline and final HP2020 data year(s) For population characteristics with three or more groups (for example, race and ethnicity, educational attainment, and family income), the summary rate ratio (RRave) measure was used for the disparities analysis.
RRave was computed separately for the HP2020 baseline and final data years by taking the ratio of the “best” (most favorable or least adverse) group rate and the average rate of all other groups for that population characteristic.
Note that “rate” in this case may refer to a statistical rate expressed per unit population or a proportion, depending on how the HP2020 objective was defined.
The value of RRave will be greater than or equal to 1, regardless of whether the objective is expressed in terms of a favorable outcome to be increased, in which case RRave = 𝑅 𝐵 𝑅 𝐴 , or an adverse outcome to be decreased, in which case RRave = 𝑅 𝐴 𝑅 𝐵 .
RRmax is computed by taking the ratio of the best group rate and the “worst” group rate (the group with the least favorable or most adverse rate) for that population characteristic.
In this scenario, the computation of RRave or RRmax follows the same procedure as described previously, but differences between the baseline and final years regarding the population group with the best rate should be considered when interpreting the HP2020 objective-specific results in the data file.
Handling “ties” for population groups with the same rate For the RRave calculation, which was used for population characteristics with three or more groups, the population group with the best rate was compared with the average rate of all other population groups for a given population characteristic.
For RRmax, which was used for population characteristics with only two groups, the population group with the best rate was compared with the rate for the other population group within that characteristic.
Data used for the disparities analysis were unrounded when available, although some objectives only had rounded data in the HP2020 database.
If two population groups had the same rates that resulted in a tie when identifying the best group, then the group with the lower SE for that rate was identified as the best group.
If no SE was reported, then the population group with the larger denominator from the survey question or the group with the larger population size in the United States during the data-collection year was used as second- and third-tier criteria, respectively, to identify the best group.
Note that the other tied population group(s) that was (were) not identified as having the best group rate was still included in the calculation of RRave or RRmax, so the value of these measures would be equivalent regardless of which of the tied group rates was reported as the best.
The criteria used to define these categories were as follows: Decrease: Difference in the summary rate ratio or the maximal rate ratio between the final and baseline data year was negative and statistically significant when this could be assessed, or negative and |DC| ≥ 0.10 when statistical significance could not be assessed.
Increase: Difference in the summary rate ratio or the maximal rate ratio between the final and baseline data year was positive and statistically significant when this could be assessed, or positive and DC ≥ 0.10 when statistical significance could not be assessed.
Reference Talih M, Huang DT.
Measuring progress toward target attainment and the elimination of health disparities in Healthy People 2020.
Healthy People Statistical Notes, no 27.
Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics.
Available from:  .
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 1990 Print Healthy People 1990 was an outgrowth of the landmark 1979 publication, Healthy People: The Surgeon General’s Report on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (1), which provided the foundation for the first national health promotion and disease prevention initiative.
The report identified five broad national goals, one for each of the five major stages of life (infants, children, adolescents and young adults, adults, and older adults); premature mortality and morbidity were also highlighted.
To achieve these goals, Promoting Health/Preventing Disease: Objectives for the Nation (2), released in 1980, set out 226 quantifiable objectives with targets to be achieved by 1990.
The objectives were organized in the 15 priority areas identified in the 1979 Surgeon General’s report (1).
As Healthy People became an established initiative over the next few decades with the development of Healthy People 2000, 2010, 2020, and 2030, the goals and objectives for the nation published in 1979 and 1980 became known as Healthy People 1990.
The final assessment of progress for the Healthy People 1990 objectives was published in Health, United States, 1991 (3).
References U.S.
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Healthy people: The surgeon general’s report on health promotion and disease prevention.
Available from:  .
Department of Health and Human Services.
Promoting health/preventing disease: Objectives for the Nation.
Available from:  .
National Center for Health Statistics.
Health, United States and prevention profile 1991.
Hyattsville, Maryland.
Available from:  .
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Tracking Healthy People 2010 Print The latest online update of Tracking Healthy People 2010 was made available October 2011.
This update supersedes the November 2000 version and all subsequent revisions.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Final Review Print Healthy People 2010 Final Review presents a quantitative end-of-decade assessment of progress in achieving the Healthy People 2010 objectives and goals over the course of the decade.
It continues the series of profiles of the nation’s health objectives as an integral part of the Department of Health and Human Services’ disease and health promotion initiative for the decade that began in 2000.
This report presents a summary of progress toward achieving the Healthy People 2010 goals of: Increasing quality and years of healthy life, and Eliminating health disparities.
This publication provides the final tracking data used to present a quantitative assessment of progress for the 969 objectives in the 28 Healthy People 2010 Focus Areas.
A summary of progress for the Healthy People 2010 Leading Health indicators is also presented.
View/Download Snapshots: Overview and Selected Findings Healthy People 2010 Final Review Slide Deck To request this slide deck in PowerPoint format, please contact HP2020DATA@cdc.gov.
View/Download the Report To view the PDF files, Adobe Reader is required.
If you don’t have Adobe Reader, you can download it free of charge from the Adobe website .
To order a hard copy of the report, please contact CDC-INFO: Contact CDC-INFO Form – Please select ‘Publications’ for the Subject and specify the name of the report (e.g.
Healthy People 2010 Final Review) Phone: 1-800-CDC-INFO Also available in limited quantities – Healthy People 2010 Final Review: Progress Charts Healthy People 2010 Final Review: Progress Charts presents a quick-reference tool for the quantitative assessment of progress toward achieving the Healthy People 2010 objectives over the course of the decade.
The full report, Healthy People 2010 Final Review, further provides an extensive summary of progress toward achieving the two overarching Healthy People 2010 goals of increasing quality and years of healthy life and eliminating health disparities.
Healthy People 2010 Final Review: Progress Charts provides the final tracking data used to chart progress for the 969 objectives in the 28 Healthy People 2010 Focus Areas.
A Progress Chart for the Healthy People 2010 Leading Health Indicators also is presented.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2020 Midcourse Review Print The Midcourse Review provides a snapshot of progress toward the Healthy People 2020 goals and objectives halfway through the 10-year initiative.
This assessment provides a roadmap for the second half of the decade.Healthy People 2020 contains 42 topic areas with more than 1,200 objectives, as well as Leading Health Indicators and Foundation Health Measures.
The Leading Health Indicators are a small focused set of 12 topics and 26 objectives identified to communicate high-priority health issues.
The Foundation Health Measures are broad, cross-cutting, population-based measures.
Readers can download individual chapters of this 820-page report below.
Further information about Healthy People 2020, including access to the most recent data updates, can be found on the Department of Health and Human Services’ HealthyPeople.gov website.
“It is my hope that the findings presented in the Healthy People 2020 Midcourse Review, both successes and challenges, serve to help guide officials, the public, and individuals in developing policies and programs that improve the health of Americans.” — Charles J.
Rothwell, Director, National Center for Health Statistics “The Healthy People 2020 Midcourse Review analyzes the data by different populations—such as racial and ethnic populations, gender, income level, education level, and rural and urban settings—to identify disparities that influence health outcomes.
Even when we have met or exceeded our targets, a deeper look at the data can uncover disparities that may be masked by the national average.” — Don Wright, M.D., M.P.H.
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Director, Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services The Midcourse Review was published online on January 11, 2017.
Subsequently, errors were discovered and corrected in several chapters.
Corrected chapters are indicated below, and contain correction details.
Additionally, minor revisions to some chapters were made that did not affect the findings or interpretation of the results, and those chapters are indicated below.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2000 Print Health Status Indicators Race/ethnicity-specific infant mortality Total deaths Motor vehicle crash deaths Work-related injury deaths Suicides Homicides Lung cancer deaths Female breast cancer deaths Cardiovascular diseases deaths Reported incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome Reported incidence of measles Reported incidence of tuberculosis Reported incidence of primary and secondary syphilis Prevalence of low birthweight Births to adolescents Prenatal care during the first trimester Childhood poverty Proportion of persons living in counties exceeding U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2000 Print In September 1990, the Department of Health and Human Services released Healthy People 2000: National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Objectives, a strategy for improving the health of Americans by the end of the century.
Healthy People 2000 contains 319 unduplicated main objectives grouped into 22 priority areas.
Because some priority areas share identical objectives, there is a total of 376 objectives including duplicates.
The first 21 areas pertain to health promotion, health protection, and preventive services.
Area 22, Surveillance and Data Systems, addresses the development of an infrastructure to track the objectives and to identify and evaluate emerging public health issues at the national, State, and local levels.
NCHS is responsible for monitoring the Nation’s progress toward the objectives, using NCHS and other data sources.
Progress reports are published annually in the Healthy People 2000 Review series.
Although the objectives are national, their achievement will be accomplished primarily through State and local efforts.
Thus, building State capacity to evaluate need and assess progress is an important component of the NCHS Year 2000 program.
State support activities will include training, technical assistance, development of software products for State and local health agencies, and, as available, funding.
Regularly scheduled Healthy People 2000 progress reviews provide the Assistant Secretary for Health with a means to track the objectives and manage their implementation.
The agency with lead responsibility for the given priority area presents the review, assisted by members of the interagency work group for that priority area and invited State agency and private organization representatives.
Specific population progress reviews document data issues, barriers, and strategies to achieving the objectives, as well as implementation efforts underway to reach the specific population targets.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search General Data Issues Print This section provides a revised version of the information published in Tracking Healthy People, Part A: General Data Issues, originally released in 2000 and updated in November 2009.
This section will further address the full range of data-related issues for the Healthy People 2010 objectives and measures in each of the 28 Healthy People 2010 Focus Areas.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Leading Health Indicators at a Glance Print Physical Activity Increase the proportion of adults who engage in moderate physical activity for at least 30 minutes per day 5 or more days per week or vigorous physical activity for at least 20 minutes per day 3 or more days per week.(Objective 22-2) Increase the proportion of adolescents who engage in vigorous physical activity that promotes cardiorespiratory fitness 3 or more days per 3 or more days per week for 20 or more minutes per occasion.(Objective 22-7) Overweight and Obesity Reduce the proportion of adults who are obese.
(Objective 19-2) Reduce the proportion of children and adolescents who are overweight or obese.
Children and adolescents aged 6 to 19 years.
(Objective 19-3c) Tobacco Use Reduce tobacco use by adults.Cigarette smoking.(Objective 27-1a) Reduce tobacco use by adolescents.
Cigarettes (past month).(Objective 27-2b) Reduce the proportion of children who are regularly exposed to tobacco smoke at home.
(Objective 27-9*) Substance Abuse Reduce past-month use of illicit substances.
Increase the proportion of adolescents not using alcohol or any illicit drugs during the past 30 days.
(Objective 26-10a) Reduce past-month use of illicit substances.
Reduce the proportion of adults using any illicit drug during the past 30 days.
(Objective 26-10c) Reduce the proportion of persons engaging in binge drinking of alcoholic beverages.
Adults aged 18 years and older.
(Objective 26-11c) Responsible Sexual Behavior Increase the proportion of sexually active unmarried females who report condom use by partners.(Objective 13-6a) Increase the proportion of sexually active unmarried males who report condom use.
(Objective 13-6b*) Increase the proportion of adolescents who have never had sexual intercourse.(Objective 25-11a) Increase the proportion of adolescents who had sexual intercourse, but not in the past 3 months.Objective 25-11b*) Increase the proportion of adolescents who used condoms at last intercourse.
(Objective 25-1c*) Mental Health Reduce the suicide rate.
(Objective 18-1*) Increase the proportion of adults with mental disorders who receive treatment.
Adults aged 18 years and older with recognized depression.(Objective 18-9b) Injury and Violence Reduce nonfatal firearm-related injuries (Objective 15-5a) Reduce homicides.
(Objective 15-32) Environmental Quality Reduce the proportion of persons exposed to air that does not meet the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s health-based standards for harmful air pollutants.
(Objective 8-1a) Reduce the proportion of nonsmokers exposed to environmental tobacco smoke.
(Objective 27-10) Immunization Increase the proportion of young children and adolescents who receive all vaccines that have been recommended for universal administration for at least 5 years.
(Objective 14-24) Increase the proportion of adults who are vaccinated annually against influenza and ever vaccinated against pneumococcal disease.
Noninstitutionalized adults aged 65 years and older.
Influenza vaccine.
(Objective 14-29a) Increase the proportion of adults who are vaccinated annually against influenza and ever vaccinated against pneumococcal disease.
Noninstitutionalized adults aged 65 years and older.
Pneumococcal vaccine.(Objective 14-29b) Access to Health Care Increase the proportion of persons with health insurance.
(Objective 1-1) Increase the proportion of persons who have a specific source of ongoing care.
(Objective 1-4a) Reduce hospitalization rates for three ambulatory-care-sensitive conditions- pediatric asthma, uncontrolled diabetes, and immunization-preventable pneumonia and influenza.
(Objective 1-9*) Increase the proportion of pregnant women who receive early and adequate prenatal care.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2000 Progress Review Print Violent and Abusive Behavior Date: October 6, 1999 Time: 2-4 p.m.
EST This progress review will be broadcast on the Public Health Training Network.
Details on how to view the broadcast are provided on CDC’s National Center for Injury Prevention and Control’s home page.
David Satcher, Assistant Secretary for Health and Surgeon General will be joined by a panel of experts representing the public and private health sectors, as well as representatives of the criminal justice system to discuss the topic of violence and abusive behavior.
Rodney Hammond, Director of the Division of Violence Prevention at the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control and Dr.
Edward Sondik, Director of the National Center for Health Statistics will review the progress of the objective in the Violence and Abusive Behavior priority area in Healthy People 2000.
Edward Sondik Director, National Center for Health Statistics Thank you, Dr.
Today we are here to present data on some of the most disturbing of public health issues – behaviors that are violent and abusive.
This includes homicide, suicide, assault, rape and child abuse.
There is much encouraging news to report, but at the same time much work remains to be accomplished.
In this first section, I will highlight overall findings on violence and abusive behaviors, with detailed data on homicide, rape, and partner abuse, and child abuse.
Later in the program I will present data on suicide, adolescent and school violence.
Let’s begin by looking at the overall statistics.
In 1997, there were almost 20,000 homicides in this country and over 30,000 suicides.
That means that in 1997, an average of more than 50 people were killed each day and almost 80 committed suicide.
Also in 1997, over 2 million assaults occurred where people were injured.
More than 175,000 women were victims of rape or attempted rape.
NCHS’s 1998 preliminary data were released just yesterday.
They suggest that the country has met the Healthy People 2000 targets for homicide, suicide, and firearm deaths.
Over the decade, the homicide rate has dropped by 30 percent, suicide by 14 percent and the firearm death rate by 25 percent.
The declines in homicide and firearm deaths began in 1994 and they continue, while the decline for suicide has been gradual over the entire period.
Looking at trends in homicide – encouraging news.
Overall rates have shown a downturn since mid-decade and we have surpassed the year 2000 target.
So although homicides dominate the news, we are making progress.
Homicide rates vary greatly by race and ethnicity.
Blacks are disproportionately victims of homicide.
Their rates are almost 6 times those of whites and Asians and Pacific Islanders.
Homicide is the second leading cause of death among adolescents and young adults 15-34 years.
When targets were set for Healthy People 2000 priorities, these three groups – black females, black males, and Hispanic males – were included as special population sub-objectives because they are at higher risk.
For all of these groups there has been progress from the peak mid-decade years.
The target for black females – the blue line — has been met and the target for Hispanic males – the orange line – has almost been met.
The rate for black males has declined sharply since 1993.
Unfortunately, the rate for this group is still 10 times the homicide rate for Asian and Pacific Islander males.
And, for that matter, the rate is still 30 percent above the target.
I don’t think it would surprise many to know that homicide rates vary widely across the country.
Large core metropolitan counties have the highest rate s – 15 per 100,000 in 1995, which was about 2 to 3 times the rates of large suburbs and rural areas.
More recent data on homicide rates in cities of 100,000 people or more indicate that some cities had no reported homicides in 1997, while others had rates as high as 60 to 80 per 100,000 population.
Let’s turn next to information on firearm deaths.
As with homicide, the firearm death rate has declined since mid-decade and preliminary 1998 data indicate that the year 2000 target has been met.
The rate for black persons has also shown a decline.
It’s important to note that these data represent all deaths by firearms, including homicides, suicides and unintentional injuries.
In 1997, firearms were used in almost 70 percent of homicides and almost 60 percent of suicides.
We’re going to talk about suicides later, but, while I’m discussing firearms I should point out that half of all firearm deaths are suicides.
Firearm deaths are not evenly distributed across the country.
On this map, the lowest rates are shown in green and are concentrated in New England and the Upper Mid-West.
Highest rates – shown in shades of purple, are found in the Mountain States – which are primarily due to the high rates of suicide in that area – and in the South, which has high rates of homicide.
A number of states have enacted laws to require safe firearm storage.
Currently 15 states have enacted such laws, however, no additional states have passed laws since mid-decade.
Violence against women is a very serious problem and, unfortunately, may not always be reported by the victim or adequately responded to once reported.
Data collected through the Department of Justice National Crime Victimization Survey suggest a decline of 50 percent in rape and attempted rape, and… as we can see in this slide, a smaller decline of about 15 percent in partner abuse.
In considering this apparent progress, we must realize that collecting these types of data pose a particularly difficult challenge.
Surveys are conducted in the household where biases are likely, partially due to the potential threat of further abuse by others in the household.
I am very pleased to report, however, that the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services have formed a long-term, joint effort to improve methods to measure violence against women.
The final area of concentration is child abuse.
There were about 40 reports of child abuse and neglect for every 1,000 children and adolescents in 1993.
Neglect is the largest component with significant contributions by physical abuse, emotional abuse, and sexual abuse.
This is another complex issue to measure, and surveillance in this area is particularly difficult.
We have evidence that the number of states with child death review teams is on the rise.
As these teams become more successful, we may see increases in reporting due to improved surveillance.
To briefly summarize, of the six objectives discussed in this section, two – homicide and firearm deaths – have met their targets, and three have made progress.
One, child abuse, unfortunately is moving away from the target.
Many of the other objectives will be highlighted in the next section.
Let me now turn the program back to Dr.Satcher.
SATCHER: Thank you, Ed, Dr.
Hammond, will you highlight how we are responding to violence against women.
Thank you Dr.
This second section will focus on suicides, and also on violent and abusive behaviors among children and adolescents.
As you’ve heard, suicide prevention is a major focus within the Department of Health and Human Services as witnessed by Dr.
Satcher’s just published report ‘The Surgeon General’s Call to Action to Prevent Suicide, 1999.’ In fact, in the United States the rate of suicide is 50 percent higher than the homicide rate.
Again, there is encouraging news to report on this objective – overall suicide rates have declined 14 percent during the past decade and, as with homicide, preliminary 1998 data indicate that the year 2000 target has been met.
Like homicide, rates for suicide vary significantly by race, although with a very different pattern.
The White and American Indian and Alaskan Native populations have the highest suicide rates – in blue double the rates for the black and Asian and Pacific Islander populations.
As I pointed out earlier, homicide rates – the red bars – are significantly higher for black people.
Turning next to suicide rates by age, suicide rates – in red – rise rapidly, first in adolescence and then again for older people.
This contrasts with homicide rates which peak in early adulthood and then decline steadily.
The top line on this slide documents these high rates of suicide among older people, in this case , white men ages 65 and older.
On the positive side, rates for this group have dropped considerably in the past few years.
Trends for the two other targeted groups, adolescents and young men 20-34 years have shown some improvement.
I also want to emphasize that firearms were involves with almost 60 percent of these suicides.
Suicide rates are clustered by area of the country.
These rates tend to be lowest in New England, the Middle Atlantic and the Upper Mid-West.
Rates are highest, in general, in the Mountain States and in the West.
Now, I want to focus on adolescents, including adolescent suicide and other forms of violence.
To better understand and prevent adolescent suicide, we have collected and analyzed information on suicide thoughts and suicide attempts.
CDC’s Youth Risk Behavior Survey, the YRBS, is a major source of these data.
Through YRBS we’ve discovered that one out of 5 students in grades 9 through 12 – that’s one out of 5 – has seriously contemplated suicide in the past year.
Almost 8 percent report attempting suicide and about a third of those attempts were serious enough to require medical treatment.
Sadly, in 1997 more than 1,000 adolescents aged 14 to 17 years in this country ended their lives by suicide.
We do seem to be making progress in other areas of adolescent violence.
Incidents of physical fighting, while not yet at target, are definitely heading in the right direction.
And the data also show that the incidence of weapon carrying in school is way down.
Decreases for all adolescents and for Black students, a special sub-objective, have exceeded their targets.
On a closing note, the events that we’re talking about today are by no means rare.
There were 30,000 suicides and 20,000 homicides in 1997.
That’s 50,000 deaths and one-fifth of them, which is 10,000, occurred to our young people ages 15-34.
Focusing on these young people, homicide and suicide represent more deaths than from any natural cause of death.
Perhaps more than any other priority area, the issues involved in these deaths cut across so many parts of people’s lives, including health, economic, social, justice, education, and housing.
To summarize – in many areas we have made much progress over the decade.
Of the 19 objectives, five have already met their targets – homicide, suicide and firearm deaths, as well as reductions in weapon carrying and the number of states with child death reviews.
Five other objectives show progress.
Another five, unfortunately, are moving away from the year 2000 targets, including assault injuries.
And there are no data to update four objectives.
So the challenge for the next decade is very clearly before us.
Thank you very much.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Print Progress Review Focus Area 28 – Vision and Hearing October 20, 2004, 1:00-2:30 PM.
Room 729G, HHH Bldg.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Print Progress Review Focus Area 27 – Tobacco Use May 14, 2003, 1:30 – 3:30 PM.
Room 729G, HHH Bldg.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Print Progress Review Focus Area 26 – Substance Abuse October 13, 2004, 1:00-2:30 PM.
Room 729G, HHH Bldg.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Print Progress Review Focus Area 25 – Sexually Transmitted Diseases July 21, 2003, 1:00-2:30 PM.
Room 729G, HHH Bldg.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools, US Department of Education Bureau of Primary Health Care, Health Resources and Services Administration, U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People National Center for Health Statistics Search Healthy People 2010 Print Progress Review Focus Area 25 – Sexually Transmitted Diseases July 21, 2003, 1:00-2:30 PM.
Room 729G, HHH Bldg.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools, US Department of Education Bureau of Primary Health Care, Health Resources and Services Administration, U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use SEARCH Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Note: This page refers to tobacco products that are made and sold by tobacco companies.
It does not include traditional tobacco used by Indigenous groups for religious or ceremonial purposes.
Surgeon General's Report: Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Learn More Smoking and Tobacco Use Features Browse past and present Smoking and Tobacco Use feature articles.
Menthol Tobacco Products Learn about menthol tobacco products, their dangers, and threat to advancing health equity.
State Tobacco-Related Disparities An interactive dashboard to visualize and identify tobacco-related disparities.
Commercial Tobacco Products Cigarette Smoking Get information on the impact of diseases caused by smoking, like cancer, heart disease, and more.
E-cigarettes (Vapes) Get the bottom line on e-cigarettes (vapes) and get links to more CDC.gov content about vaping.
Smokeless Tobacco Product Use in the United States Other Tobacco Products Secondhand Smoke Health Disparities Related to Commercial Tobacco and Advancing Health Equity: An Overview For Professionals and Health Care Providers Patient Care Guidance for care settings, clinical tools, and cessation support materials to give patients.
About Surgeon General's Reports on Smoking and Tobacco Use Reports about smoking and tobacco use provide updates on its impact on the health of Americans.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) Scientific Evidence Briefs Multimedia and Tools STATE System Global Tobacco Control Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use SEARCH Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Note: This page refers to tobacco products that are made and sold by tobacco companies.
It does not include traditional tobacco used by Indigenous groups for religious or ceremonial purposes.
Surgeon General's Report: Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Learn More Smoking and Tobacco Use Features Browse past and present Smoking and Tobacco Use feature articles.
Menthol Tobacco Products Learn about menthol tobacco products, their dangers, and threat to advancing health equity.
State Tobacco-Related Disparities An interactive dashboard to visualize and identify tobacco-related disparities.
Commercial Tobacco Products Cigarette Smoking Get information on the impact of diseases caused by smoking, like cancer, heart disease, and more.
E-cigarettes (Vapes) Get the bottom line on e-cigarettes (vapes) and get links to more CDC.gov content about vaping.
Smokeless Tobacco Product Use in the United States Other Tobacco Products Secondhand Smoke Health Disparities Related to Commercial Tobacco and Advancing Health Equity: An Overview For Professionals and Health Care Providers View information about how this image was edited or created.
Patient Care Guidance for care settings, clinical tools, and cessation support materials to give patients.
View information about how this image was edited or created.
About Surgeon General's Reports on Smoking and Tobacco Use Reports about smoking and tobacco use provide updates on its impact on the health of Americans.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) Scientific Evidence Briefs Multimedia and Tools STATE System Global Tobacco Control Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use SEARCH Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Note: This page refers to tobacco products that are made and sold by tobacco companies.
It does not include traditional tobacco used by Indigenous groups for religious or ceremonial purposes.
Surgeon General's Report: Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities Learn More Smoking and Tobacco Use Features Browse past and present Smoking and Tobacco Use feature articles.
Menthol Tobacco Products Learn about menthol tobacco products, their dangers, and threat to advancing health equity.
State Tobacco-Related Disparities An interactive dashboard to visualize and identify tobacco-related disparities.
Commercial Tobacco Products Cigarette Smoking Get information on the impact of diseases caused by smoking, like cancer, heart disease, and more.
E-cigarettes (Vapes) Get the bottom line on e-cigarettes (vapes) and get links to more CDC.gov content about vaping.
Smokeless Tobacco Product Use in the United States Other Tobacco Products Secondhand Smoke Health Disparities Related to Commercial Tobacco and Advancing Health Equity: An Overview For Professionals and Health Care Providers View information about how this image was edited or created.
Patient Care Guidance for care settings, clinical tools, and cessation support materials to give patients.
View information about how this image was edited or created.
About Surgeon General's Reports on Smoking and Tobacco Use Reports about smoking and tobacco use provide updates on its impact on the health of Americans.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) Scientific Evidence Briefs Multimedia and Tools STATE System Global Tobacco Control Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Smoking and Tobacco Use Search Global Tobacco Control Print Tobacco use is a major preventable cause of premature death and disease worldwide.
Currently, it is estimated that nearly 8 million people die each year due to tobacco-related illnesses, which costs the global economy US $1.4 trillion annually.
An efficient and systematic surveillance mechanism to monitor the epidemic is one of the essential components of a comprehensive tobacco control program.
CDC is the lead US federal agency for comprehensive tobacco prevention and control, and CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health develops, conducts, and supports strategic efforts to protect the public’s health from the harmful effects of tobacco use.
CDC’s global tobacco work is supported by the CDC Foundation through donations from the Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use.
The Global Tobacco Surveillance System (GTSS) aims to enhance country capacity to design, implement, and evaluate tobacco control interventions, and monitor key articles of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) and components of the MPOWER technical package.
the collection of data through four surveys: The Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) The GYTS focuses on youth aged 13-15 years and collects information in schools The Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS) The GATS is a nationally representative household survey that monitors tobacco use among adults aged 15 years and older The Tobacco Questions for Surveys (TQS) The TQS includes an adult and youth version and provides standardized tobacco questions for integration into other existing surveys for continuous surveillance and/or when it is not feasible for countries to conduct GATS or GYTS.
TQS is a list of 22 survey questions taken from the GATS core questionnaire and TQS-Youth is a list of 21 survey questions from the GYTS core questionnaire that can be integrated into surveys to promote data comparability within and across countries over time.
These questions can be included in any survey (e.g., health or social surveys) to get a comprehensive picture of tobacco control in any population of interest.
The integration of TQS and TQS-Youth is intended to enhance the capacity of countries to design, implement and evaluate tobacco control interventions outlined in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) through the MPOWER policy package.1 More information about the TQS-Adult and TQS-Youth surveys is available on the GTSSData Documentation page.
Inactive GTSS surveys include the Global School Personnel Survey (GSPS) and the Global Health Professionals Student Survey (GHPSS).
GSPS surveyed teachers and administrators from the same schools that participate in the GYTS.
GHPSS focused on 3rd-year students pursuing degrees in dentistry, medicine, nursing, and pharmacy.
Please send us your questions, comments, or suggestions regarding the Global Tobacco Surveillance System.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 Multimedia and Tools AT A GLANCE Access selected tobacco counter-advertisements and printable and shareable media such as videos, podcasts, reports, and brochures.
MCRC also offers free tobacco-related subscription services.
Share and Print Tobacco-Related Materials Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC) Tools for finding, learning about, and ordering CDC-licensed tobacco counter-advertisements.
MCRC Publication Catalog Search for and order educational materials, publications, and other media singly or in bulk.
Publication Catalog For International Orders CDC is unable to process international orders at this time.
If you are a CDC partner, please direct questions to your CDC point of contact.
RELATED PAGES MCRC Overview Login to MCRC MCRC: Update Account Information MCRC: Search for Ads MCRC: View Search Results VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use MCRC Overview SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone OCTOBER 17, 2024 Smokeless Tobacco Product Use in the United States AT A GLANCE Learn more about smokeless tobacco product use in the United States.
Overview This fact sheet provides information on how many people use smokeless tobacco.
It also describes what the U.S.
government has done to protect the public's health from the harmful effects of smokeless tobacco use.
Adult smokeless product tobacco use (national) Characteristics of adults who currently used smokeless tobacco in 2021:1 About 2 in every 100 (2.1%) adults aged 18 or older reported current use of smokeless tobacco products.
This represents 5.2 million adults.
About 4 in every 100 (4.2%) men currently used smokeless tobacco.
Less than 1 in every 100 (0.2%) women currently used smokeless tobacco.
Among racial and ethnic groups, non-Hispanic White adults had the highest prevalence of smokeless tobacco use.
Nearly 3 of every 100 (2.9%) non-Hispanic White adults currently used smokeless tobacco.
Note: In the list above, "current use of smokeless tobacco" means using chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco at least once during their lifetime.
At the time of the survey, it means using at least one of these products "every day" or "some days." The survey was conducted among persons aged 18 and older.
Adult smokeless tobacco product use (by region) In 2021, the percentage of adults who reported current use of smokeless tobacco was 3.2% among people living in the Midwest, 2.3% in the South, 1.6% in the West, and 1.2% in the Northeast.1 Adult smokeless tobacco product use (state-specific) In 2022, the percentage of adults who reported current smokeless tobacco use was highest in:2 West Virginia: about 5 in every 100 people (5.4%).
Wyoming: about 5 in every 100 people (5.2%).
Montana: About 5 in every 100 people (5.1%).
Mississippi: About 4 in every 100 people (4.2%).
In 2022, the percentage of adults who reported current smokeless tobacco use was lowest in:2 Rhode Island: Less than 1 in every 100 people (0.5%).
California, Delaware, Maryland: Less than 1 in every 100 people (0.6%).
Connecticut, New Jersey, New York: Less than 1 in every 100 people (0.7%).
Note: In the list above, "current smokeless tobacco" means using chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus, or dissolvable tobacco at least once during their lifetime.
At the time of the survey, it means using at least one of these products "every day" or "some days." The survey was conducted among persons aged 18 and older.
Youth smokeless tobacco product use The table below shows the percentage of middle and high school students currently using smokeless tobacco in 2024.
“Current smokeless tobacco product use” means using chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus at least once during their lifetime and, at the time of the survey, using at least one of these products “every day” or “some days.” Nicotine pouch use is report...
Show More Smokeless tobacco product use among high school students3 Current Use of Smokeless Tobacco Among Middle and High School Students in 2024 Middle School High School Total Overall 0.8% 1.5% 1.2% Boys 1.0% 2.3% 1.7% Girls 0.7% 0.6% 0.7% AI/AN -- -- 3.6% Black -- -- 0.8% White 0.7% 1.8% 1.3% Hispanic 1.0% 1.4% 1.3% Multiracial -- -- 1.3% Asian -- -- -- Notes for the table above: Percentages represent approximately how many people in every 100 people use smokeless tobacco products.
For example, 2.1% represents approximately 2 in every 100 people.
"Current use of smokeless tobacco" means using chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, or snus on 1 or more of the 30 days before participation in the survey about this topic.
Multiple product use In 2021, nearly 2 of every 25 (7.9%) adults who reported currently using two or more tobacco products reported smoking cigarettes and using smokeless tobacco.
Nearly 1 of every 10 (9.3%) of young adults (ages 18–24 years) who currently smoked cigarettes also reported current use of smokeless tobacco.4 In 2024, 3.7% of high school students reported current use of more than one type of tobacco product.3 According to a 2016 report, use of both cigarettes and smokeless tobacco (dual use) was associated with switching to smokeless tobacco to try to quit smoking cigarettes.5 Using smokeless tobacco products with or instead of cigarettes is not healthy, as smokeless tobacco can cause many negative health effects.
Additional information: Smokeless Tobacco Products, Including Dip, Snuff, Snus, and Chewing Tobacco | FDA RELATED PAGES Other Tobacco Products Heated Tobacco Products Smokeless Tobacco: Health Effects About Cigars Cigars Are a Public Health Problem VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use About Cigars SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tobacco - Health Equity EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Health Disparities Related to Commercial Tobacco and Advancing Health Equity State Tobacco-Related Disparities Commercial Tobacco and Health Equity VIEW ALL Related Topics: Smoking and Tobacco Use | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports View All MAY 16, 2024 State Tobacco-Related Disparities PURPOSE The Tobacco Disparities Dashboard is an interactive tool to visualize and identify tobacco-related disparities.
The results can help inform efforts to address tobacco-related disparities in states.
How to use The dashboard shows cigarette smoking disparities among U.S.
The User Guide has detailed information on how to use the dashboard.
View in full-screen mode by clicking the expand icon at the bottom-right corner.
Use this link to download tobacco disparities dashboard data or download for a specific demographic on each page.
Suggested Citation Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Office on Smoking and Health.
Tobacco Disparities Dashboard.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Accessed Month DD, YYYY.
 ON THIS PAGE How to use Suggested Citation SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tobacco - Health Equity There are differences in tobacco use, access to prevention services, and cessation treatments for tobacco use among specific populations.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone DECEMBER 27, 2024 Smoking and Tobacco Use Features AT A GLANCE Browse past and present feature articles on various smoking-related topics and observances.
Feature Spotlight Celebrate a fresh start.
Make your new year smokefree!
A new year is a great opportunity for smokefree beginnings.
Quitting smoking is one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health.
This is true no matter how old you are or how long you have smoked.
There are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Celebrate a fresh start.
Make your new ye...
Show More View this feature.
All Features SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 MCRC: View Search Results AT A GLANCE Learn how to interpret search results in Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC).
About Search Results After you conduct a search, the system displays the items matching the search criteria you entered on the Search Results page.
The system displays the following information for each ad: Associated picture (if any) Title Cost (estimated) Format Languages Themes Campaigns Description Special status, e.g.
Free, New To view an ad, click on the link or the image for the item.
The system displays the ad summary and details.
View screenshot of Search Results page on smaller devices or larger devices.
Filter Options The Ads/Campaigns Filter Options section at the left side of the page displays options that you can use to filter the search results, thereby narrowing down the list.
The section has two tabs, Ads and Campaigns.
To filter the list using ad options, click the Ads tab and select the options to use for narrowing the current results displayed.
For example, you can choose to see only Print ads (Formats) that are Free (Cost), and targeted toward college students (Audiences) and are in Spanish (Languages).
The number of items that matches each filter option is displayed next to the option.
When viewing ads, you can click the Associated Campaigns link to view the campaigns associated with the currently displayed ads.
To filter the list using campaign options, click the Ads tab and select the options to use for narrowing the current results displayed.
For example, you can choose to see only Pregnant Women Campaigns related to Secondhand Smoke (Theme) targeted toward Parents (Audiences) and produced between 2010 and 2015 (year range slider).
When viewing campaigns, you can click the Associated Ads link to view the ads associated with the currently displayed campaigns.
View screenshot of filter options.
Sorting You can sort the search results in various ways using the Sort By field.
For example, you can choose to sort a current list of ads by their title in a descending (Z-A) or ascending (A-Z) order, cost, or format.
Note: When you sort by Cost: Low-High, free items are displayed first.
Ads/campaigns per page You can control the number of items displayed on each results page by selecting the desired number of items per page from the Results displayed per page drop-down list.
You can select to see 25, 50, 75, or 100 items per page.
Page selection The total number of items matching the search criteria you entered is displayed at the top right corner above the results.
This section also displays the set of results currently displayed, for example “1-10 of 150”.
To display a page of results, click the number corresponding to the page.
To go to the first page, click the left arrow.
To go to the last page, click the right arrow.
Help resources MCRC Overview Login to MCRC Update Account Information Search for Ads View Search Results View Ad Summary and Details Request Ads View Campaigns View Ads In Cycle Glossary of Terms FAQ ON THIS PAGE About Search Results Filter Options Sorting Help resources RELATED PAGES Multimedia and Tools MCRC: Update Account Information MCRC: Search for Ads MCRC: View Ad Summary and Details MCRC: Request Ads VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use MCRC: View Ad Summary and Details SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People BRFSS Prevalence & Trends Data Search Per a court order, HHS is required to restore this website to its version as of 12:00 AM on January 29, 2025.
Information on this page may be modified and/or removed in the future subject to the terms of the court’s order and implemented consistent with applicable law.
Any information on this page promoting gender ideology is extremely inaccurate and disconnected from truth.
The Trump Administration rejects gender ideology due to the harms and divisiveness it causes.
This page does not reflect reality and therefore the Administration and this Department reject it.
BRFSS Prevalence & Trends Data Print The enhanced BRFSS Prevalence & Trends Tool allows you to explore prevalence data by location or topic.
Just like the original tool, this version allows you to view and download prevalence estimates through charts, graphs, and maps.
In addition, this version also provides access to prevalence estimates from the BRFSS core data at the state level as well as data from Selected Metropolitan/Micropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART).
These prevalence estimates have been updated to include both crude and age-adjusted prevalence.
The tool will continue to be updated as new functions and data become available.
Explore by Location Explore by Topic Explore bar and trendline graphs for survey questions by selecting a state, territories or Metropolitan/Micropolitan Statistical Areas (MMSAs).
Behavioral Risk Factors Data Portal Work with BRFSS data directly to create your own filtered dataset, customize visualizations, download data, and more.
Behavioral Risk Factors Data Portal Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is the nation's premier system of health-related telephone surveys that collect state data about U.S.
residents regarding their health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 ESPAÑOL Celebrate a Fresh Start: Make Your New Year Smokefree!
AT A GLANCE Quitting smoking is one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health.
This is true no matter how old you are or how long you have smoked.
There are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Celebrate a fresh start.
Make your new year smokefree!
Ring in the new year smokefree There are many ways to celebrate the new year, like making changes to improve your health and well-being.
If you smoke, one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health is quitting smoking.
Find your reason to quit in the new year.
Some people make New Year's resolutions.
Others quit to be there for family and friends.
Whatever your reason, quitting smoking will improve your health and reduce your risk of heart disease, cancer, lung disease, and other smoking-related illnesses.
However, some people don't know where to start.
Don't worry.
There are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Counseling Counseling means talking to a quit coach, doctor, or other health care professional about quitting smoking.
Counselors can help you make a plan to quit smoking.
They can also prepare you to cope with stress, urges to smoke, and other challenges you may face when trying to quit.
You can get counseling help in different ways: Talk to a quit smoking counselor one-on-one or join a group.
Get free confidential coaching through a tobacco quitline (1-800-QUIT-NOW).
Use free online resources like CDC.gov/quit and Smokefree.gov .
Sign up for a free texting program.
Text QUITNOW to 333888; message and data rates may apply.
Use a mobile app like quitSTART.
Quit-smoking medicines Quit-smoking medicines can also help you on your quit-smoking journey.
These medicines can manage nicotine withdrawal symptoms and cravings, helping you stay confident and motivated to quit.
When you stop smoking, your body and brain have to get used to not having nicotine.
This might feel uncomfortable at first, but the withdrawal symptoms will get better over time if you stay smokefree.
There are seven medicines approved by the Food and Drug Administration to help you quit.
They work in different ways.
All have been shown to be safe and effective for adults who smoke cigarettes.
Some of these quit-smoking medicines are available over-the-counter, including the nicotine patch, nicotine gum, and nicotine lozenge.
Other quit-smoking medicines require a prescription, like nicotine nasal spray and pill medicines varenicline and bupropion SR.
Talk to your health care provider about which quit-smoking medicine or medicines are right for you.
Counseling plus quit-smoking medicines Your best chance of quitting cigarettes for good is by using counseling and medicine together.
These treatments and resources for quitting may be available to you free of charge or may be covered by your insurance.
Elizabeth B.’s story Elizabeth B.
started smoking menthol cigarettes at age 18 because her friends and coworkers smoked.
Within a year, Elizabeth was smoking about a pack and a half of menthol cigarettes a day.
"Everything revolved around the ability to smoke," she said.
"I was a prisoner to my addiction." When Elizabeth was 42 years old, she had a stroke.
Doctors advised her to quit smoking immediately, but Elizabeth continued to struggle with nicotine addiction for another 10 years.
How Elizabeth quit for good Elizabeth tried to quit multiple times using different methods.
Then, at age 52, she finally found what worked for her.
She set a quit date, threw away her ashtrays, changed routines connected to smoking, and used nicotine patches.
Using a combination of strategies, Elizabeth finally quit smoking for good.
Diseases from smoking Two weeks after quitting smoking, Elizabeth started dating her future husband, Stephen B.
The pair enjoyed taking long walks together, until Elizabeth started experiencing numbness in her feet and cramping in her calves.
Elizabeth was diagnosed with smoking-related peripheral artery disease (PAD), a condition in which her arteries had narrowed and blocked the flow of blood to her legs.
Just four months after she and Stephen married, Elizabeth had to have major surgery to restore blood flow to her legs.
In more recent years, Elizabeth developed kidney cancer.
But she feels that PAD is her biggest challenge to everyday living.
She can no longer take the stairs.
Walking is painful but critical to saving her legs from amputation, so she and Stephen make taking walks a daily priority.
"If I had never smoked that first cigarette, I may not have lit the fuse for PAD," she said.
"My goal is to help other young people never start smoking." Benefits of quitting smoking Quitting smoking has health benefits at any age, no matter how long or how much you have smoked.
Over time, people who quit smoking see many benefits to their health.
After you smoke your last cigarette, your body begins a series of positive changes that continue to improve for years.
Quitting smoking: Improves health and quality of life.
Reduces the risk for premature death.
Reduces the risk for cardiovascular diseases, like heart disease and stroke.
Reduces the risk for 12 types of cancer.
Reduces the risk for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Improves health for people who already have heart disease or COPD.
Improves the health of pregnant women and their babies.
This new year, celebrate a fresh start.
Start your quit journey today!
Free quitting resources Telephone 1-800-QUIT-NOW 1-855-DÉJELO-YA (Español) 1-800-838-8917 (中文) 1-800-556-5564 (한국어) 1-800-778-8440 (Tiếng Việt) Smartphone apps and text Text QUITNOW to 333888—Message and data rates may apply quitSTART app Web Quit Smoking (En Español) Smokefree.gov (En Español ) Asian Smokers' Quitline ON THIS PAGE Ring in the new year smokefree Counseling Quit-smoking medicines Counseling plus quit-smoking medicines Elizabeth B.’s story Benefits of quitting smoking Free quitting resources RELATED PAGES Smoking and Tobacco Use Features 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth Improving Tobacco-Related Health Disparities No Menthol Sunday Quit Smoking for Better Health VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Quit Smoking for Better Health SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Tobacco - Health Equity EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Health Disparities Related to Commercial Tobacco and Advancing Health Equity State Tobacco-Related Disparities Commercial Tobacco and Health Equity VIEW ALL Related Topics: Smoking and Tobacco Use | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 Commercial Tobacco and Health Equity Search health equity pages SOURCES PRINT SHARE Tobacco - Health Equity There are differences in tobacco use, access to prevention services, and cessation treatments for tobacco use among specific populations.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Public Health MAY 15, 2024 MCRC: FAQ AT A GLANCE Find answers to frequently asked questions about the Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC).
Frequently asked questions 1.
What is the Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC)?
MCRC is a clearinghouse funded by the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health.
MCRC licenses and maintains an inventory of existing tobacco control advertisements developed by a number of U.S.
states, organizations, and federal agencies.
(Note: The words “advertisements” and “ads” are used interchangeably in this document to refer to all media types.
The words “commercials” and “spots” are used interchangeably in this document to refer to ads for television or radio.) By providing access to existing advertising materials, MCRC allows states, organizations, and government agencies to save the time and high cost of producing new ads.
What types of advertisements does MCRC have in its collection?
The MCRC collection includes hundreds of video and radio commercials, social media materials, print, outdoor, and digital ads as well as collateral materials in a variety of formats.
The print ads may be used in newspapers or magazines, and the outdoor ads may be used on billboards or posters, as taxi tops, or as transit ads.
CDC and partner-produced social media image posts are available in formats for use on a variety of social platforms (Facebook, X, Pinterest, and Instagram), as well as on blogs and other owned web properties.
Who can use MCRC ads?
MCRC materials may be used only by nonprofit health-related organizations or government agencies.
Each organization/agency must sign a use agreement specifying the intended use of the ads and obligating the user to pay all associated costs (talent, image license fees, music license fees, and tagging).
Per our licensing agreements with the original producers of the materials, for-profit organizations are not allowed to use any materials other than those produced directly by CDC.
Permission for these for-profit organizations to use CDC materials will be determined on a case-by-case basis and may not be granted.
What are the talent fees, and how much are they?
Performers in some commercials are paid “talent fees,” both when the commercial is originally produced and when it is reused.
In many cases, performers are members of the Screen Actors Guild–American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA).
This union governs the minimum charges for each type of use.
In some cases, performers in nonunion commercials have been paid a single fee for all uses of the commercial; this is called a “buy-out,” and no further talent fees are due.
Talent fees for each commercial are determined by a number of factors, including: The number of performers in the commercial.
The rate each performer charges (some may accept the minimum rate allowed by SAG-AFTRA, called "scale;" others may charge more—these rates are negotiated between the performers or their agents and the MCRC).
The type of use—paid use on network affiliates, cable use, use as a public service announcement, use in theaters or schools, etc.
The music fee, if music is in the spot.
MCRC can provide estimates of talent fees for each commercial based on expected use.
The exact cost will not be determined until rates are negotiated individually for each specific use.
Why don't performers donate their time for this kind of commercial?
SAG-AFTRA does not allow members to donate their services entirely because, in the past, there have been cases with other public service causes in which actors’ services were abused.
Some people are motivated to appear in the MCRC commercials because of their own personal experiences with tobacco or because they believe in the tobacco counter-marketing cause.
They normally are willing to accept the minimum “scale” payments.
For most of the actors in MCRC commercials, this is a job like any other, and they charge accordingly.
Aren't public service announcements (PSAs) supposed to be free?
Public service announcements (PSAs) are not defined by the content of the ad.
An ad is called a PSA when it is aired on donated time.
The time is donated by the television or radio station that airs the ad—in other words, no one buys the advertising time.
To air a SAG-AFTRA commercial as a PSA, one fee is paid to performers for an entire year of use nationwide.
As long as the PSA airs on donated time, there is no limit to how many times or how many places the commercial may air during that one (1) year.
Why aren't all MCRC advertisements paid PSAs?
The radio and television stations that air PSAs—not the organizations providing the ads—choose the times to air them.
PSAs often are aired during off-hours and during times that cannot be easily sold to regular advertisers, such as in the middle of the night.
Sometimes individual stations will agree to air PSAs throughout the day, but usually it is more effective to buy air time on a station and work with a station’s staff regarding when commercials will air to ensure that your message is reaching your target audience with sufficient reach and frequency.
By paying for the air time, the ad becomes a paid commercial, not a PSA.
What are the fees for Internet usage of MCRC ads?
Internet usage of MCRC ads is not free.
Contact the administrator for current rates and options.
What about using MCRC commercials in schools, theaters, clinics, and other community sites?
These uses are not free.
Uses such as in theaters, sports arenas, health care clinics/offices, community centers, etc., require payment under “theatrical and industrial use” fees.
With so many ads available, how do I determine which MCRC ads I want to use?
MCRC offers many resources to help you select which ads might be appropriate for your campaign.
The MCRC application provides detailed information about each ad in its extensive collection of tobacco counter-advertisements for television, radio, print, digital/Internet, and outdoor use.
Users can view the ads and order them online (see question 11).
Lists of spots currently in use as PSAs and paid commercials are less expensive because you are sharing costs with another user.
To see all ads in cycle in MCRC, select the "Ads in Cycle" option on the home page.
(Note that this feature is available only to registered MCRC users who are logged in to the site.) There are also a number of spots that have no talent fees at all.
To find free ads in MCRC, select "Free ads only" as the cost range when using the MCRC detailed search tool (see question 11).
MCRC also offers technical assistance to help you select commercials appropriate for your campaign.
Contact an administrator for more information about this service.
What information is in the MCRC Database?
You can use MCRC to browse the MCRC collection, identify advertisements of interest, and request more information.
The quick search feature on the home page searches only current ads that are available for use in counter-marketing campaigns.
The detailed search function is useful for people who want to: (1) target an ad search for a specific population, cost range, language, etc., or (2) review older ads in the MCRC for archive research and campaign ideas.
Once I've selected the ads I want to use, how do I order them?
First, you will need to visit MCRC and add the advertisements to your “requested ads” list (shopping cart).
At this point, you should also determine if the costs are within your price range (a price range for each ad is listed on the database—ads listed as cost “unknown” have not been used since production and will be renegotiated upon your request).
At the same time you request your ads, provide information on how you plan to use the ads so that we can provide you with a more accurate estimate of the costs for the selected ads.
Whenever you request talent fee estimates for a particular ad, you will need to provide the following information: Video/radio: Cities or markets where it will be broadcast Start and end dates Platforms/channels if digital use Social and digital ads: Start and end dates Platforms Outdoor (billboards, bus ads, taxi toppers, airport backlit ads, etc.): Start and end dates Cities/states/markets where ads will appear Print ads (magazines, newspapers, etc.): Start and end dates Circulation of magazine or newspaper (the publication can provide this information) markets When you have selected the actual ads or commercials you wish to use and agreed to cost, MCRC will send you a cost quote to confirm your obligation to pay the associated costs and an ad use agreement that sets out the terms and conditions of use.
A person authorized to bind your organization to legal agreements must sign both documents.
Production on your order (For example, tagging) begins after we receive the signed cost quote and agreement—together these make up your contract.
Once the contract has been signed, you are obligated to pay the talent fees even if you decide later not to use a particular ad.
Once we receive your signed agreement, we will tag if requested (see questions 13 and 15).
Turnaround normally is 3–5 business days.
We deliver material electronically by a file transfer protocol (FTP) site and send a link by email to you or the media outlets or printing vendors you specify.
The entire process, from the day we first receive your signed order, takes about 2 weeks.
Can I add the name of my organization to each ad?
The Federal Communications Commission requires that each television and radio commercial be identified with the name of its sponsoring organization.
This visual or audio identification of your organization is called a "tag." The tag must not mention the name of any specific government officials (governors, mayors, etc.) because the ads are not to be used for political purposes.
Upon request, the MCRC can tag your ads for a fee; including broadcast, print and digital (see question 15).
Ask MCRC administration about tagging costs for specific ads.
What are the costs for using MCRC commercials?
In addition to the talent fees (see question 4), there are costs for tagging or other production support.
How much does tagging cost?
Cost for tagging is decided on a case-by-case basis and varies based on need, and the following key considerations: Is MCRC creating the tag (text and/or a logo included)?
Is MCRC recording voice-over messages to add to your tag, and how many?
MCRC in-house creative staff can tag all ad types and formats.
Please contact an MCRC administrator for an estimate.
All products are delivered electronically by FTP server.
You are responsible for printing all posters, billboards, and other materials.
Ads that are free of talent fees are subject to tagging costs as described here.
Can MCRC commercials be used outside the United States?
SAG-AFTRA rates cover use of TV spots in the United States, Mexico, and Canada.
Outside these areas, television talent fees are paid by region.
The ads may not be incorporated into a separate media production without express permission by the original producer.
Tagging requirements may vary by country, and translation to other languages may need approval by the ad producer (see question 18).
May I use materials from countries other than the United States in my country?
MCRC has a compilation of cessation ads from around the world to facilitate communication and sharing of information among different countries.
We are able to negotiate the use of ads in MCRC produced in Australia; for others we provide contact information for the original producing countries.
What if I want to change some of the words in a commercial or just use part of it to make my own spot?
Any changes to the body of the spot—words or images—must be approved in advance by the original producing agency as well as the original sponsoring health department/organization.
This approval is determined on a case-by-case basis, and permission to make changes to the content of the spot is not always granted.
Approval to translate a spot into a different language normally is granted, with final review of the translation by the producing agency or organization.
Is there a cost to use ads for school/educational purposes?
The collection contains many ads that can be used for free by anyone including for school/educational purposes.
Many ads in the collection can also be found on YouTube and public health websites.
How do I place ads that I have produced into the MCRC?
Placing your ads into MCRC allows other states and organizations to take advantage of the hard work, time, and expense that you have put into producing high-quality materials.
If you represent a nonprofit health organization or government agency and have materials to share, the first step is to contact an MCRC administrator.
We will send you a licensing agreement that allows CDC the nonexclusive rights to redistribute your materials.
A representative from your organization who is authorized to bind your organization to legal agreements must sign this document.
Then you send us the ads in master format, along with information about the actors, models, photographers, and other talent in the ads.
You will also send us information such as themes, target audiences, etc., about each ad so we can include this information in the database.
Please send materials that do not have your state or organization's tag so that the states/organizations using your ads can add their own.
All of the states and organizations that have placed their ads in the MCRC have done so as a service to others in tobacco control.
There is no cost to the producing state/organization to place ads in the MCRC, nor is there any payment to the producing state/organization to include ads in the collection.
Any talent fees for use of the ads are incurred by the state/organization that uses the ads.
We receive many inquiries from individuals, advertising agencies, schools, etc., that have produced materials and want to include them in MCRC.
Unfortunately, most of these materials are not of broadcast quality, and most are not based on rigorous research and testing, as are the materials produced for tobacco control programs at the state or national level.
Therefore, we restrict materials that we accept into MCRC to only those produced by state health departments, nonprofit health organizations, and federal agencies.
If you are from an entity other than a government or nonprofit health organization and have produced high-quality ads that are used in a statewide or national tobacco control effort, or if you have research to demonstrate their effectiveness, please contact an MCRC administrator to discuss.
Exceptions to this policy will be made on a case-by-case basis and may not be granted.
*Note: Any fees listed in this document are subject to change without notice.
Please contact an MCRC administrator to confirm fees.
Help resources MCRC Overview Login to MCRC Update Account Information Search for Ads View Search Results View Ad Summary and Details Request Ads View Campaigns View Ads in Cycle Glossary of Terms FAQ RELATED PAGES Multimedia and Tools MCRC: View Ad Summary and Details MCRC: Request Ads MCRC: View Campaigns MCRC: View Ads In Cycle MCRC: Glossary of Terms VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Funding Opportunity Announcements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Divisions and Offices About Us Chronic Disease Interventions Leadership Budget and Funding Our Impact Social Media Resources VIEW ALL Related Topics: Chronic Disease View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 13, 2024 About the Division of Population Health AT A GLANCE CDC's Division of Population Health (DPH) envisions a nation where every population thrives in health and wellness.
What we do DPH promotes health and well-being and prevents chronic diseases among people in all stages of life.
We do this by collecting data, conducting community-based research, and developing cross-cutting public health programs.
Priorities Making data available to drive public health progress DPH delivers timely, high-quality health data to help communities and states better understand the prevalence and geographic distribution of health measures, which can be helpful in planning public health programs that best meet the needs of their populations.
The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) collects state data about health behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services among U.S.
BRFSS is the largest telephone health survey in the world and captures information from more than 400,000 U.S.
adults each year across all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and participating U.S.
territories.
The BRFSS online tool allows users to display data for state-to-state and state-to-national comparisons.
PLACES: Local Data for Better Health provides health data for small areas (counties, census tracts, and ZIP code tabulation areas) across the country.
The Chronic Disease Indicators tool provides national and state estimates for 113 surveillance indicators of chronic diseases and their risk factors.
Where applicable, estimates are broken down by sex, race and ethnicity, and age group.
Translating research for public health impact Since 1984, CDC has funded the Prevention Research Centers (PRCs), a network of academic research centers that study how people and their communities can reduce risk factors for chronic conditions, such as heart disease, obesity, and cancer.
PRCs work with local communities to develop, test, and evaluate solutions to public health problems.
For example, to improve access to community health workers (CHWs), the University of Arizona PRC (AzPRC) partnered with other local public health organizations to achieve a state certification path for CHWs.
They first established the Arizona CHW Workforce Coalition, which worked with legislators to formalize voluntary CHW certification.
Then they developed tools to share AzPRC's research with decision makers and identified sustainable funding mechanisms to integrate CHWs into the health care system.
Providing scientific and programmatic expertise Tribal health American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) adults have higher rates of some chronic diseases and lower life expectancy—about 11 years lower—than other racial and ethnic groups in the U.S.
With DPH's culture-first approach, the Healthy Tribes Program funds tribes, villages, tribal organizations, and Tribal Epidemiology Centers through three programs: Good Health and Wellness in Indian Country.
Recipients implement a coordinated and holistic approach to reduce chronic disease risk factors in Native communities.
Tribal Practices for Wellness in Indian Country (TPWIC).
Recipients implement tribal practices and cultural traditions to strengthen community and cultural connections for improved physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health and well-being within AI/AN communities.
From 2018 through 2022, TPWIC engaged over 250,000 AI/AN community members in diet, nutrition, physical activity, cooking, and gardening activities that promote healthy living.
Tribal Epidemiology Centers Public Health Infrastructure.
Recipients work to address data gaps and build public health capacity to promote health and prevent disease in AI/AN communities.
Healthy aging: Alzheimer's disease and arthritis DPH focuses on two challenges to the health and quality of life of aging adults today: Alzheimer's disease and arthritis.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia and the seventh leading cause of death in the United States.
It affects 6.9 million U.S.
adults, a number that is expected to double by 2060.
CDC promotes awareness and strategies to address Alzheimer's disease and related dementias through the National Healthy Brain Initiative and Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) infrastructure activities.
BOLD funds 43 public health department programs and 3 BOLD Public Health Centers of Excellence to: Increase early detection and diagnosis.
Reduce risk.
Prevent avoidable hospitalizations.
Support caregiving for people with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.
Arthritis affects 1 in 5 adults, or over 54 million people, in the United States.1 It is a major cause of disability and pain for adults, and the top reason for work disability in this country.
CDC's Arthritis Well-Being and Management Program works to improve the quality of life for people with arthritis by: Collecting data to identify arthritis trends.
Conducting research to learn how arthritis affects quality of life for people who also have other chronic diseases (like diabetes).
Funding 12 states and 5 national organizations to expand the reach of proven physical activity and self-management education programs.
Funding 3 universities as part of a new arthritis research network.
Since 2012, in collaboration with states and national partners, CDC has reached more than 200,000 adults with evidence-based interventions that can improve arthritis management and quality of life.
Social determinants of health Not all people have the same opportunities for health and wellness.
Some groups have much higher rates of chronic diseases as a result of different environmental, policy, structural, or social conditions.
CDC funds programs to address nonmedical factors that influence health in five priority areas: Built environment.
Community-clinical linkages.
Food and nutrition security.
Social connectedness.
Tobacco-free policies.
Since 2021, CDC has funded 71 states, communities, and territories to develop Accelerator Plans addressing the five priorities.
These plans are intended to accelerate action in state, local, territorial, and tribal jurisdictions that lead to improved chronic disease outcomes for groups affected by health disparities and inequities.
CDC is also funding five ACTion states and communities to implement established plans to address SDOH in their communities by increasing access to clinical services, safe places to be active, healthy foods, and social services.
Excessive alcohol use Excessive alcohol use, including underage drinking and binge drinking, is responsible for more than 178,000 deaths per year in the United States.
Among adults aged 20 to 49, about 1 in 5 deaths are from excessive drinking.
Excessive alcohol use increases the risk of injuries, violence, and chronic diseases (such as liver diseases, several types of cancer, and high blood pressure).
CDC's Alcohol Program funds 11 states to promote strategies that reduce alcohol-related illness, injury, and deaths.
The program: Measures the effects of excessive alcohol use on groups of people.
Works with partners to provide resources and expand the use of effective strategies in states and communities.
Communicates the benefits of reducing excessive alcohol use.
Expands the ability of states to monitor patterns of alcohol use and related health effects.
Investigating emerging public health topics for better awareness Epilepsy About 3.3 million Americans have epilepsy, including 456,000 children.
Epilepsy and seizures cost the nation at least $24.5 billion per year in medical costs.
Epilepsy can have both direct and indirect health effects that limit life opportunities and access to timely and effective treatment.
For example, people with epilepsy may have uncontrolled seizures, need frequent in-hospital care, be unable to drive, and face stigma and discrimination.
As a result, they may have trouble with school, jobs, and relationships, and may have depression and anxiety.
CDC's Managing Epilepsy Well Network has collaborated with more than 35 epilepsy health or social service partners across the United States to expand the reach of proven epilepsy self-management programs through in-person and virtual offerings.
These programs help people with epilepsy take control of their health and manage their day-to-day challenges.
Lupus Lupus is an incurable autoimmune disease that triggers inflammation, causing pain and affecting daily life.
It can affect people of all ages, including children, but women aged 15 to 44 and those from minority racial and ethnic groups are most at risk.
CDC funds research to improve the diagnosis and treatment of lupus by funding lupus patient registries and long-term studies.
In 2023, with CDC's support, the Lupus Foundation of America's Partners United for Sustainable Lupus Education and Awareness (PULSE) project launched a campaign to help people with lupus get diagnosed more quickly and an app to promote access to lupus self-management programs.
Since their launch, both initiatives have seen tremendous success, with nearly 17 million campaign views and over 3,200 app downloads.
Inflammatory bowel disease and interstitial cystitis CDC also funds partners to provide expertise, education, and data on chronic conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease and interstitial cystitis.
Chronic disease education Chronic Disease Education and Awareness projects fund recipients to strengthen the science base for prevention, education, and public health awareness for less known and addressed conditions.
Leadership Bio Director's Bio Craig W.
Thomas, PhD Dr.
Thomas leads the Division of Population Health.
ON THIS PAGE What we do Priorities Leadership Bio RELATED PAGES Divisions and Offices About the Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention About the Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity About the Division of Oral Health About the Division of Reproductive Health About the Office on Smoking and Health VIEW ALL National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) About the Division of Reproductive Health SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) CDC's work to prevent chronic diseases across the lifespan and help people manage their chronic diseases to prevent complications.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All MAY 10, 2022 ESPAÑOL No Menthol Sunday AT A GLANCE On No Menthol Sunday, national organizations and faith communities educate people who smoke menthol cigarettes about their harmful effects and encourage them to quit.
Targeted menthol marketing Tiffany R.
shares her emotional story about quitting smoking.
knows what it's like being addicted to menthol cigarettes.
When she was 16 years old, her mother, who smoked cigarettes, died of lung cancer.
Still, Tiffany started smoking menthol cigarettes in her late teens because she wanted to be like other kids in her school.
What started out as a youthful desire to fit in became an addiction to cigarettes, and soon she was smoking about a pack of menthol cigarettes a day.
Tiffany's story is all too common in African American communities, which have been disproportionately targeted by menthol cigarette marketing and advertisements, especially in cities.
Tobacco companies use advertisements, giveaways, and cheaper prices for menthol cigarettes to increase appeal.
Menthol products are given more shelf space in retail outlets in neighborhoods that have more residents who are African American or from other racial and ethnic minority groups.
Targeted marketing from tobacco companies puts African American people at higher risk of smoking and becoming addicted to nicotine.
They also have a higher risk of smoking related disease and death.
Now, there is an opportunity to do something about it.
This year, on May 15, national organizations and faith communities are marking the day as No Menthol Sunday to educate people who smoke menthol cigarettes about their harmful effects and encourage them to quit.
Tiffany: you don’t quit just for yourself Tiffany talks about losing her mother, who smoked, to lung cancer when Tiffany was just 16 years old.
Despite this, Tiffany smoked menthol cigarettes for years before realizing what she might miss in her own daughter's life.
In this video from CDC's Tips From Former Smokers® campaign, Tiffany's daughter, Jaelin, says she cannot imagine living without her mother.
Jaelin goes on to tell her mom how proud she is of her for quitting smoking for good.
Low Resolution Video No Menthol Sunday No Menthol Sunday , an annual observance led by the Center for Black Health & Equity, is an opportunity to engage faith leaders and their communities in a discussion about how to improve health and reduce health disparities for African American people.
One way to improve health is to encourage people who smoke tobacco products to quit.
Tobacco product use remains a major contributor to the three leading causes of death among African American people—heart disease, cancer, and stroke.
On No Menthol Sunday, faith leaders encourage congregations and communities to support one another in escaping tobacco addiction.
They also highlight the role flavored tobacco products, including menthol, have played in starting to use tobacco and becoming addicted to it.
What is menthol?
Menthol is a chemical compound found naturally in peppermint and similar plants.
It can also be produced in a lab.
Menthol in cigarettes creates a cooling sensation in the throat and airways when the user inhales, making cigarette smoke feel less harsh and taste more appealing.
Tobacco companies market menthol cigarettes as "smoother" than other cigarettes, but they are just as harmful.
In 2013, FDA found they are likely a greater risk to public health than non-menthol cigarettes.
CDC social media campaign on harms of menthol cigarettes.
Menthol use Targeted marketing of menthol cigarettes and other factors have contributed to tobacco-related health disparities across the United States for decades.
Black or African American people (Black people) likely have higher percentages of menthol cigarette smoking in part because the tobacco industry has aggressively marketed menthol products to them.
Approximately 81% of Black adults who smoked used menthol cigarettes.A Approximately 58% of Black youth ages 12–17 who smoked used menthol cigarettes.
A higher percentage of Black adults (93%) than White adults (44%) who smoked started by using menthol cigarettes.B Menthol and quitting Although Black people try to quit smoking more often than White people, they are often less successful.
And people who smoke menthol cigarettes may have more difficulty quitting smoking than people who smoke non-menthol cigarettes.
This could be because menthol enhances the effects of nicotine in the brain.
Tiffany made many attempts to quit smoking, but it wasn't until her own daughter was 16 that she made the connection to her mother and attempted to quit.
"I didn't want my daughter to think, 'Wow, my mother loves cigarette smoking more than she cares about me,'" says Tiffany.
Her biggest and most enduring motivation has been her daughter.
Low Resolution Video Tiffany made many changes in her life to make sure she quit for good, including: Setting a specific date to quit smoking.
Reaching out to family and friends for support.
Changing her morning ritual to enjoy an extra hour of sleep instead of smoking and drinking coffee.
Drinking water and exercising more often.
Carrying a picture of her mother to remind her of everything her mother went through and her death from lung cancer.
Using a nicotine patch and reading and following all the instructions.
Tiffany quickly discovered that without cigarettes, she had more energy and stamina.
Her family and friends sent cards of encouragement, helped her keep a positive attitude, and called and reminded her of all the reasons to never smoke again.
How can I quit smoking?
While quitting smoking can be a challenge, it's one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health.
Quitting smoking reduces your risk of heart disease, cancer, lung disease, and other smoking-related illnesses.
To start your quit-smoking journey, make a plan.
Your plan can include proven treatments to help you quit, like counseling and medicines.
Using counseling and medicine together gives you the best chance of quitting for good.
For health care professionals To help patients quit smoking, health care providers must ensure equitable access to and promote barrier-free cessation services and medicines.
Evidence-based treatment—including counseling and cessation medicines approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)—significantly increases the chance of success in quitting tobacco.
Free quitting resources Telephone 1-800-QUIT-NOW 1-855-DÉJELO-YA (Español) 1-800-838-8917 (中文) 1-800-556-5564 (한국어) 1-800-778-8440 (Tiếng Việt) Smartphone apps and text Text QUITNOW to 333888 (Message and data rates may apply.) quitSTART App Web Quit Smoking (En Español) smokefree.gov (En Español ) Asian Smokers' Quitline ON THIS PAGE Targeted menthol marketing No Menthol Sunday What is menthol?
Menthol use Menthol and quitting How can I quit smoking?
Free quitting resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone AUGUST 31, 2022 Improving Tobacco-Related Health Disparities WHAT TO KNOW Health equity is the fair and just opportunity for all individuals to attain their highest level of health, including addressing disparities caused by commercial tobacco.
What is health equity?
Health equity is the fair and just opportunity for all people to be as healthy as possible, and that includes the opportunity to be free from commercial tobacco.
Yet, some people don’t have this opportunity because of factors like their race or ethnicity, where they live, or what kind of job they have.
For decades, tobacco companies have used promotions, targeted marketing, and other tactics to unfairly increase access to and appeal of tobacco products for certain population groups.
Discrimination, poverty, and other social conditions have also been linked to tobacco product use and can make it harder to quit.
These factors are linked to high levels of disease, disability, and death from tobacco use in some populations—like Hispanic and Latino people and people with behavioral health conditions.
More protections are needed to prevent tobacco product use and secondhand smoke exposure among different population groups, and to help people who use tobacco to quit for good.
Everyone deserves to be as healthy as they can be, and that means living free from the harmful effects of commercial tobacco.
By increasing efforts in these areas, we can advance health equity.
Social determinants of health and their relationship to health behaviors Social determinants of health are conditions in the places where people live, learn, work, and play that affect health and quality of life.
Examples of social determinants of health related to tobacco include retail conditions like the number of stores that sell tobacco in a neighborhood.
It also includes where in stores tobacco products are displayed and advertised.
Education, job opportunities, and income are other social determinants of health that can influence how healthy a person can be.
For example, lower quality education can be associated with less ability to understand and act on health information and less access to good jobs with health insurance.
People with lower incomes can have less access to healthcare, including care needed for smoking-related health conditions.
Some social determinants of health can lead to stress, which can also affect people's tobacco product use.
Stress from financial problems, discrimination, or unsafe neighborhoods can make it harder to quit smoking and can even increase tobacco product use.
When people have severe or long-lasting forms of stress, their bodies can respond by raising stress hormones and keeping them raised.
If this goes on for a long time, they may develop health problems such as high blood pressure or type 2 diabetes.
View information about how this image was edited or created.
Social conditions of health equity Targeted marketing of commercial tobacco products Tobacco companies spend billions of dollars each year to market their products.
They continue to target specific population groups, including youth and people who are African American, Hispanic, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian, LGBTQ+, and people who live in low-income communities.
Tobacco companies target specific groups by promoting and advertising products in areas where these groups live, shop, and attend events.
Targeted marketing can include: Donations, scholarships, and giveaways.
Nightlife marketing—like in bars, clubs, and nightclub after-parties.
Price promotions such as discounts, coupons, and special sales.
Product placement.
More tobacco retailers in racial and ethnic communities and neighborhoods with lower income.
Sponsorships of sporting events, parades, and cultural events.
Tobacco product marketing can make smoking seem more appealing.
It can also increase the chance that someone will try it for the first time or start using tobacco products regularly.
Actions to improve tobacco-related health inequities States and communities can take action to make tobacco products less appealing and less available.
For example, they can increase prices and prohibit price discounts, prohibit the sale of flavored tobacco products, allow fewer stores in a neighborhood to sell commercial tobacco products, or prohibit tobacco product sales altogether.
States and communities also can create stronger smokefree air policies that protect all people from secondhand smoke.
In states that do not have statewide smokefree policies that ensure all public places and workplaces are smokefree, some communities have passed smokefree air laws that apply to these spaces.
These policies are important because they protect people who don’t smoke from secondhand smoke, motivate those who smoke to quit, and prevent people from starting to smoke.
Right now, not everyone is equally protected from the dangers of secondhand smoke.
States and communities can protect all people from tobacco product marketing and discourage tobacco product use by doing the following: Adopt commercial tobacco use policies for public places and make sure people who want to quit can get the help they need.
Make all workplaces smokefree—with no exceptions.
Educate people about the dangers of exposure to secondhand smoke.
Encourage people to set rules that prohibit smoking in their apartments, single-family homes, and vehicles.
Keep the prices of tobacco products high.
Reduce or eliminate the sale of tobacco products.
Take action against health inequalities Access to quit-smoking treatment Proven treatments, such as FDA-approved medicines and behavioral counseling, can help people successfully quit smoking.
But some people face barriers to these treatments because of where they live, their employment status, or their health insurance coverage.
Other barriers can be related to someone's race or culture.
For example, studies have consistently shown that members of some racial or ethnic groups receive less counseling from their doctors and have poorer outcomes than White patients with the same ailments.
States, communities, and health care systems can help improve access to treatments by doing the following: Ensure that barrier-free health insurance coverage for evidence-based quit-smoking treatments, like FDA approved medications and behavioral counseling, are available and widely promoted.
Integrate clinical screening and treatment for commercial tobacco use in all healthcare settings and with all types of patients.
Increase access to quit-smoking services that are acceptable to different cultures and communicated in different languages.
Share health messages that reach specific groups experiencing health disparities.
Ensure people can easily get the help and support they need to quit smoking.
Not everyone has the same access to healthcare Better health for all A commitment to health equity involves understanding the causes of tobacco-related health disparities.
By addressing social determinants of health, including those related to targeted marketing and barriers to healthcare, states and communities can move toward health equity and reduce health disparities.
*"Commercial tobacco" means harmful products that are made and sold by tobacco companies.
It does not include "traditional tobacco" used by Indigenous groups for religious or ceremonial purposes.
ON THIS PAGE What is health equity?
Social determinants of health and their relationship to health behaviors Targeted marketing of commercial tobacco products Actions to improve tobacco-related health inequities Access to quit-smoking treatment Better health for all RELATED PAGES Smoking and Tobacco Use Features 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth No Menthol Sunday Celebrate a Fresh Start VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use No Menthol Sunday SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone MAY 29, 2020 ESPAÑOL World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth AT A GLANCE Learn what individuals and communities can do to help keep young people tobacco-free, or help them quit for good, on this World No Tobacco Day.
Why observe World No Tobacco Day?
Using any kind of tobacco product is unsafe, especially for kids, teens, and young adults.
But worldwide, at least 14 million young people aged 13 to 15 currently use tobacco products, according to CDC's 2006–2017 Global Youth Tobacco Survey.
Tobacco companies, meanwhile, spend billions of dollars every year on marketing tobacco products, including cigarettes, cigars, and e-cigarettes.
Since 1988, the World Health Organization (WHO) has used World No Tobacco Day to highlight the harmful effects of cigarettes and other tobacco products on a person's overall health.
This year, WHO is focusing on preventing youth tobacco product use and the tobacco industry's attempts to attract youth.
This World No Tobacco Day, learn what individuals and communities can do to help keep young people tobacco-free, or help them quit for good.
youth and tobacco: the numbers In 2019, about 40% of U.S.
middle and high school students reported ever using any kind of tobacco product—including e-cigarettes—and 23% said they had used a tobacco product in the past 30 days.
Studies show that most adults in the United States who regularly use tobacco products started before the age of 18.
Using any tobacco product, including e-cigarettes, is unsafe for young people.
Tobacco products—including cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, and most e-cigarettes—contain nicotine, which is an addictive drug.
Being exposed to nicotine can also harm brain development.
A young person's brain is still developing up to age 25.
Exposure to nicotine during these important years can harm the parts of the brain that control attention, learning, mood, and impulse control.
Secondhand smoke: a danger at home and abroad At least 500 million people younger than 15 in 21 countries are exposed to secondhand smoke.
It's a problem in the United States: 1 in 4 Americans, or about 58 million people, are exposed to secondhand smoke.
Children aged 3 to 11 have the highest exposure to secondhand smoke compared to any other age group.
African American children are more likely to be exposed to secondhand smoke than children of other racial or ethnic groups.
Quitting smoking and adopting smokefree policies help protect the health of people who do not smoke.
Targeting young people The younger a person is when they start using tobacco products, the more likely they are to become dependent on nicotine.
The tobacco industry uses this information to attract youth and young people to their products through ads and sponsorships in stores, online, in media, and at cultural events.
Ads Studies in the United States and other countries have shown that the more ads for tobacco products a young person sees, the more likely they are to use tobacco products.
Surgeon General has also said that seeing people smoke in movies makes youth more likely to smoke.
Although the number of movies rated PG-13 or lower that feature smoking has gone down in the past 15 years, the films that do show smoking show it more often.
Tobacco flavors The flavors in tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, make these products appealing to kids and teens.
Since 2009, tobacco companies have not been allowed to sell cigarettes in flavors other than menthol in the United States.
Still, youth are more likely than adults to smoke menthol cigarettes.
Flavoring is also a major driver of e-cigarette use among young people.
More than 2 out of 3 youth who currently use e-cigarettes use flavored e-cigarettes, and flavors are a major reason they report starting to use e-cigarettes.
The danger of e-cigarettes for youth Since 2014, most U.S.
youth who said they had ever used tobacco products reported using e-cigarettes.
This percentage has grown over time.
E-cigarettes typically contain nicotine.
Newer e-cigarettes use a new form of nicotine called nicotine salts, which make it easier to inhale higher levels of nicotine.
Because of the recent rise in e-cigarette use by U.S.
middle and high school students, CDC offers resources for parents, teachers, and health care providers to help them talk to kids about e-cigarettes.
What you can do Everyone—from individuals who influence youth directly to whole communities—can help prevent kids, teens, and young adults from trying and using tobacco products.
You can help prevent kids, teens, and young adults from trying and using tobacco products.
Parents and other caregivers can: Set a good example by being tobacco-free.
They can call 1-800-QUIT-NOW or visit smokefree.gov for help with quitting.
Talk to kids about the harms of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes.
Know what kids watch on screen and talk to them about tobacco use.
Tell kids you expect them not to use tobacco products or tell them to stop using them.
Refuse to give tobacco products to kids, teens, or young adults.
The Office of the Surgeon General has more tips for parents and caregivers to help keep young people tobacco-free.
Health care providers can: Talk to their patients about the dangers of tobacco use.
In a 2015 survey, only 1 out of 3 U.S.
high schoolers said their doctor brought up smoking during a visit.
Ask patients if they use tobacco products and advise them to quit.
CDC offers resources and tools to help providers start the conversation about tobacco and quitting.
States and communities can: Fund state tobacco control programs at the level CDC recommends.
Work to limit tobacco product advertising.
Use science-based strategies to prevent and reduce tobacco use.
For example, states and communities can increase tobacco prices, conduct hard-hitting media campaigns, adopt comprehensive smoke-free laws, require licenses for tobacco sellers, and limit where tobacco products can be sold.
Provide barrier-free access to treatments proven to help people quit.
If everyone works together to keep youth safe from the harms of tobacco use, we can move further toward a healthier, smokefree world.
Quitting resources for youth In 2019, more than half of U.S.
young people who reported currently using tobacco products said they were seriously thinking about quitting.
Quitting as soon as possible is the healthiest choice for mind and body.
State quitlines can connect people to resources like text support, counseling, and web-based chat.
People who want to quit can call 1-800-QUIT-NOW to find out what their state offers.
Quitlines are also available in Spanish, Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin), Korean, and Vietnamese.
1-855-DÉJELO-YA (Spanish) 1-800-838-8917 (Cantonese & Mandarin) 1-800-556-5564 (Korean) 1-800-778-8440 (Vietnamese) SmokefreeTXT for Teens is a free mobile text messaging program for youth aged 13 to 19.
The quitSTART phone app offers custom tips, inspiration, and challenges.
Quitting resources for adults At any age, it's never too late to quit.
adults who want to quit can call 1-800-QUIT-NOW or 1-855-DÉJELO-YA (Spanish) 1-800-838-8917 (Cantonese and Mandarin) 1-800-556-5564 (Korean) 1-800-778-8440 (Vietnamese) They can also visit CDC.gov/Quit or Smokefree.gov to sign up for texting programs and download mobile apps.
ON THIS PAGE Why observe World No Tobacco Day?
youth and tobacco: the numbers Secondhand smoke: a danger at home and abroad Targeting young people The danger of e-cigarettes for youth What you can do Quitting resources for youth Quitting resources for adults RELATED PAGES Smoking and Tobacco Use Features The Great American Smokeout 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit Improving Tobacco-Related Health Disparities No Menthol Sunday VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Improving Tobacco-Related Health Disparities SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Chronic Disease SEARCH About Preventing Chronic Diseases: What You Can Do Now Living with a Chronic Condition Chronic Disease Data Fast Facts VIEW ALL About Chronic Diseases The most common chronic diseases in America, risk factors, and why some groups are more affected.
Learn More Fast Facts: Health and Economic Costs of Chronic Conditions The economic impact of chronic diseases in terms of health care costs and lost productivity Chronic Disease Data and Surveillance Data about chronic diseases and leading health indicators.
General Public Preventing Chronic Diseases: What You Can Do Now What you can do to prevent chronic conditions like heart disease, diabetes, and cancer.
Living with a Chronic Condition Even if you have a chronic condition, you can take steps to feel well and avoid complications.
Are You Up to Date on Your Preventive Care?
Knowing your family health history can help you stay well and catch problems early.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS National Health Interview Survey EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NHIS About the Data Publications Early Release Program Health Insurance NHIS-Teen NHIS Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Survey VIEW ALL Related Topics: NHIS Participants View All NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation NOV.
20, 2024 AT A GLANCE Explore this gateway to data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS).
Find survey methods, questionnaires, and other resources to collect NHIS data.
Access important technical information to help you understand, analyze, and use NHIS data.
Overview Resources on this page provide information about the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) data collection, its participants, and its protocols.
It also provides analytic notes and references.
They will help you understand, analyze, and use NHIS data.
Find survey instruments, data, and other resources by year at— 2025 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2024 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2023 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2022 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2021 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2020 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation 2019 NHIS Questionnaires, Datasets, and Documentation Resources from earlier survey years are available through the CDC Archive.
There you will find older NHIS questionnaires, datasets, and documentation.
KEEP READING NHIS Methods Before 2019 Get NHIS questionnaires, datasets, and documentation from the CDC Archive— 1997–2018 1996 and earlier Data linked to NHIS data Linking data is combining two or more datasets that have some related variables to create a new dataset.
The new linked dataset maximizes the value of the original data.
Researchers can analyze the new linked dataset to understand the relationships between different variables using data collected separately.
For example, linking NHCS data with data from the National Death Index (NDI) produces a dataset that can be used to measure mortality after a patient left the hospital.
These linked data also can provide information about the patient's cause of death.
NHIS data has been linked with data from several other sources, including NDI, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Access to these linked datasets is restricted and provided through the National Center for Health Statistics Research Data Center.
About NCHS Data Linkage National Death Index CMS Medicare: Linkage Methods and Analytic Support NCHS Data Linked to SSA Social Security Benefit History Files NHIS and Medical Expenditure Panel Survey Linkage File Other NHIS survey data NHIS-Teen NHIS-Teen is a web-based survey of young people ages 12–17 years whose parent participated in NHIS on their behalf.
NHIS-Teen provides data about teens from teens.
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander NHIS In 2014, NHIS conducted the Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander NHIS (NHPI NHIS).
This survey collected information about the health of Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders in all 50 states.
Find data and related resources from that survey on the NPHI NHIS questionnaires, datasets, and documentation page.
National Immunization Provider Record Check Study NCHS and CDC's National Immunization Program implemented the NHIS/National Immunization Provider Record Check Study (NHIS/NIPRCS) in 1994 to determine the accuracy of the household vaccination reports for children aged 12–35 months.
NIPRCS's was to validate the children’s vaccination histories reported in the NHIS Immunization Supplement against the records obtained from the immunization providers for these children.
Find data and related resources from that survey in the CDC Archive.
Related surveys The Joint Canada/United States Survey of Health State and Local Area Integrated Telephone Survey (1997-2014) Contact us Email nhis@cdc.gov with any questions about the National Health Interview Survey.
Related pages National Health Interview Survey NHIS Results and Publications 2019 NHIS Questionnaire Redesign NHIS Methods ON THIS PAGE Overview Before 2019 Data linked to NHIS data Other NHIS survey data Related surveys Related pages SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Center for Health Statistics NCHS collects, analyzes, and disseminates timely, relevant, and accurate health data and statistics to inform the public and guide program and policy decisions to improve our nation’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone MAY 15, 2024 How to Quit Smoking WHAT TO KNOW There are proven treatments to help people quit smoking.
Using counseling and medication together gives people who smoke the best chance of quitting for good.
You can quit smoking: here's how Quitting smoking is one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health.
This is true no matter how old you are or how long you have smoked.
The good news is there are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Many people who smoke become addicted to nicotine, a drug that is found naturally in tobacco.
This can make it hard to quit smoking.
But the good news is there are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Download and print the infographic You can quit smoking: here’s how infographic Tobacco Cessation Infographic MAY 2, 2024 View information about how this image was edited or created.
Usted puede dejar de fumar: sepa cómo hacerlo You can Quit Smoking Infographic in Spanish MAY 2, 2024 Counseling Counseling can help you make a plan to quit smoking.
Counseling can also prepare you to cope with stress, urges to smoke, and other issues when trying to quit.
Seek counseling Talk to a quit smoking counselor individually or in a group.
Get free confidential coaching through a quitline (1-800-QUIT-NOW).
Use free online resources like CDC.gov/quit and Smokefree.gov .
Sign up for free texting program.
Use a mobile app like quitSTART.
Medications Medications can help you manage nicotine withdrawal symptoms and cravings, which helps you stay confident and motivated to quit.
You can use Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) includes several options.
Over-the-counter forms: patch, gum, lozenge.
Prescription forms: inhaler, nasal spray.
You can talk to your health care provider about using a pill prescription medication Varenicline and buproprion are pill prescription medications you can discuss with your doctor.
You can combine quit medications Use a long-acting form of NRT (nicotine patch) together with a short-acting form (nicotine gum or lozenge).
Compared to using one form of NRT, this combination can further increase your chances of quitting.
Counseling plus medications Using counseling and medication together gives you the best chance of quitting for good.
Many treatments and resources may be available to you for free of charge or may be covered by your insurance.
Get help quitting today If you are ready to quit: Call the quitline to connect with a coach and make a quit plan Call a quitline coach (1-800-QUIT-NOW) or Talk to a health care professional They can help you decide what treatment is best for you and can connect you to quit smoking programs and resources.
Remember, even if you've tried before, the key to success is to keep trying and not give up.
More than half of U.S.
adults who smoked have quit.
For more information about quitting smoking, visit CDC.gov/quit.
ON THIS PAGE You can quit smoking: here's how Counseling Medications Counseling plus medications Get help quitting today RELATED PAGES Cigarette Smoking Health Effects of Cigarettes: Cancer Health Effects of Cigarettes: Cardiovascular Disease Health Effects of Cigarettes: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Health Effects of Cigarettes: Reproductive Health Benefits of Quitting VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Benefits of Quitting SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 ESPAÑOL Great American Smokeout: Make Today Your Quit Day!
AT A GLANCE Quitting smoking is one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health.
Join the Great American Smokeout and make today your quit day!
Make today your quit day!
Are you ready to quit smoking?
Quitting smoking improves your health, but it can be hard to do.
You don't have to do it alone!
On November 21, please join people across the country for the American Cancer Society's Great American Smokeout .
Remember, the key to success is to keep trying and not give up.
More than half of U.S.
adults who have ever smoked have quit.
Make the Great American Smokeout your day to quit smoking!
Resources Download Great American Smokeout resources to help people on their quit journey.
These resources are for use in workplaces, health systems, and other places in your community.
There are proven treatments to help you quit.
Many people who smoke become addicted to nicotine, the addictive substance found in tobacco.
This can make it hard to quit smoking.
But the good news is there are proven treatments that can help you quit.
Make them a part of your quit plan.
Counseling Counseling—advice from a quit coach or a health care professional—can help you make a plan to quit smoking.
Counseling can also prepare you to cope with stress, urges to smoke, and other issues when trying to quit.
Quitlines are proven to increase your chance of quitting successfully and staying quit.
Calling a quitline is free and confidential.
When you call, a quit coach will work with you to develop a plan that is personalized for your needs.
Quit coaches are all trained to be good listeners and to give callers encouragement, support, and tips to help you be successful.
Quit-smoking medicines Quit-smoking medicines can help you manage nicotine withdrawal symptoms and cravings, which helps you stay confident and motivated to quit.
There are seven U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved medicines for adults to use when quitting smoking.
These medicines can help you quit in three ways: They make quitting less painful.
They are much safer than smoking.
They help get you through the toughest times.
Counseling and quit-smoking medicines together Using counseling and quit-smoking medicines together gives people who smoke the best chance of quitting.
Many treatments and resources may be available to you for free of charge or may be covered by your insurance.
Noel S.’s Story Noel S.
shares his story about quitting smoking.
Noel, age 42, started smoking menthol cigarettes at age 13.
Most of his friends growing up in Brooklyn, New York, smoked.
Noel thought it was the "cool" thing to do.
Noel smoked two packs of cigarettes a day for more than 20 years.
He smoked six or seven cigarettes every morning just between waking up and leaving for work.
"I'd wake up, smoke.
Get in the shower, smoke.
Get dressed, smoke.
Have a cup of coffee, smoke." Noel's addiction to cigarettes affected his life in many ways.
He rarely slept through the night because he woke up every few hours to smoke.
He lost a job as a ride-share driver because passengers continually complained that his car smelled like an ashtray.
His biggest regret was missing the funeral of an uncle who passed away in Puerto Rico.
Noel refused to fly because he couldn't tolerate the idea of not being able to smoke on a flight.
"He was like a father to me and yet I couldn't go to his funeral because I couldn't get on an airplane," Noel said.
At age 36, Noel suffered a heart attack and was hospitalized for a week.
He realized that if he continued to smoke, he would die.
He knew he had to make healthier choices if he wanted to be around to watch his younger family members grow up.
He couldn't bear the thought that he might not be there for his family.
This motivated Noel to quit smoking, change his diet, and exercise regularly.
He has been smokefree since.
Benefits of quitting smoking Quitting smoking has health benefits at any age, no matter how long or how much you have smoked.
Quitting smoking: Improves health status and enhances quality of life.
Reduces the risk of premature death and can add as much as 10 years to life expectancy.
Reduces the risk for many adverse health effects, including cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cancer, and poor reproductive health outcomes.
Benefits people already diagnosed with coronary heart disease or COPD and can improve the prognosis of patients with cancer.
Benefits the health of pregnant women and their fetuses and babies.
Reduces the financial burden that smoking places on people who smoke, health care systems, and society.
Quitting smoking is the single best way to protect family members, coworkers, friends, and others from the health risks associated with breathing secondhand smoke.
Free quitting resources Telephone 1-800-QUIT-NOW 1-855-DÉJELO-YA (Español) 1-800-838-8917 (中文) 1-800-556-5564 (한국어) 1-800-778-8440 (Tiếng Việt) Smartphone apps and text Text QUITNOW to 333888 (Message and data rates may apply.) quitSTART app Web Quit Smoking (En Español) Smokefree.gov (En Español ) Asian Smokers' Quitline ON THIS PAGE Make today your quit day!
There are proven treatments to help you quit.
Noel S.’s Story Benefits of quitting smoking Free quitting resources RELATED PAGES Smoking and Tobacco Use Features Be Ready and Determined by Being Tobacco-Free Pride Month 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Chronic Disease EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Preventing Chronic Diseases: What You Can Do Now Living with a Chronic Condition Chronic Disease Data Fast Facts VIEW ALL Public Health Resources for Community Health Workers VIEW ALL Related Topics: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP) View All Are You Up to Date on Your Preventive Care?
For Everyone AUG.
15, 2025 ESPAÑOL AT A GLANCE Making healthy choices can help you avoid many chronic diseases and can even lower your risk of severe illness from some infectious diseases, such as the flu and COVID-19.
But healthy behaviors are only part of the picture.
Getting routine preventive care can help you stay well and catch problems early.
Get regular medical and dental checkups Regular checkups are separate from any other doctor's visit for sickness or injury.
In addition to physical exams, these visits focus on preventive care, such as: Screening tests, which are medical tests to check for diseases early, when they may be easier to treat.
Services, like vaccines (shots), that improve your health by preventing diseases and other health problems.
Dental cleanings.
Education and counseling to help you make informed health decisions.
Know your family health history Family health history is a record of the diseases and health conditions in your family.
You and your family members share genes.
You may also have behaviors in common, like what you do for physical activity and what you like to eat.
You may live in the same area and come into contact with similar harmful things in the environment.
Family history includes all of these factors, any of which can affect your health.
If you have a family history of a chronic disease, like cancer, heart disease, diabetes, or osteoporosis, you're more likely to get that disease yourself.
You can't change your genes, but you can change unhealthy behaviors that can cause chronic diseases—like smoking, poor nutrition, physical inactivity, or excessive drinking.
If you have a family health history of disease, you may have the most to gain from these lifestyle changes and from preventive care practices, like regular checkups, vaccinations, and screening tests.
Talk to your family.
Write down the names of close relatives from both sides of your family—parents, siblings, grandparents, aunts, uncles, nieces, and nephews.
Include information on major medical conditions, causes of death, age at disease diagnosis, age at death, and ethnic background.
Your doctor can help you take steps to prevent certain health conditions and chronic diseases—or catch them early, when they're easier to treat.
Learn more about the importance of acting on your family health history.
Talk to your family, then your doctor You can use My Family Health Portrait to keep track of your information.
Be sure to update this information regularly and share what you've learned with your family and your doctor.
My Family Health Portrait Stay up to date on cancer screenings Cancer screening means checking your body for cancer before you have symptoms.
Getting screening tests regularly may find breast, cervical, and colorectal (colon) cancers early, when treatment is likely to work best.
Lung cancer screening is recommended for some people who are at high risk.
Learn more about screening tests.
Breast Cancer Screenings Breast cancer screening can help find breast cancer early, when it's easier to treat.
Talk to your doctor about which breast cancer screening tests are right for you and when you should have them.
Learn more about screening for breast cancer.
Cervical Cancer Screening The Pap test can find abnormal cells in the cervix that may turn into cancer.
It can also find cervical cancer early, when the chance of being cured is high.
The HPV test looks for the virus (human papillomavirus) that can cause these cell changes.
Learn more about screening for cervical cancer.
Colorectal (Colon) Cancer Screening Colorectal cancer almost always develops from precancerous polyps (abnormal growths) in the colon or rectum.
Screening tests can find precancerous polyps so they can be removed before they turn into cancer.
Screening tests also can find colorectal cancer early, when treatment works best.
Learn more about screening for colorectal cancer.
Lung Cancer Screening Yearly lung cancer screening with low-dose computed tomography is recommended for people who are 50 to 80 years old, have a history of heavy smoking, and smoke now or quit within the past 15 years.
Learn more about screening for lung cancer.
Get vaccinated Vaccination is one of the safest and most convenient ways to protect your health.
Vaccines offer protection in different ways, but they all help your body remember how to fight a specific infection in the future.
It typically takes a few weeks after vaccination for the body to build up that protection.
On-time vaccination throughout childhood is essential because it helps provide immunity before children are exposed to potentially life-threatening diseases.
Vaccines are tested to ensure that they are safe and effective for children to receive at the recommended ages.
Adults need to keep their vaccinations up to date because immunity from childhood vaccines can wear off over time.
You're also at risk of different diseases as an adult.
Routine vaccinations See the Child and Adolescent Immunization Schedule and the Adult Immunization Schedule for more information about recommended routine vaccinations.
COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination can reduce your risk of severe illness, hospitalization, and death from COVID-19.
It is especially important for people with underlying health problems, like heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, and obesity.
People with these conditions are more likely to get very sick from COVID-19.
Flu vaccination The best way to reduce your risk from seasonal flu and its potentially serious complications is to get vaccinated every year.
Learn more at Prevent Seasonal Flu.
Everyone 6 months or older should get a flu vaccine every season, especially people at higher risk.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Tips From Former Smokers ® Search Tips For Quitting Español (Spanish) Print What happens when you talk to a quit coach, doctor, or other healthcare professional about quitting?
This section provides tips you can get if you want help dealing with urges and cravings.
These have all been shown to help, with or without medicines.
You can try some out and use them when you quit, or learn more about them first by calling the free and confidential 1-800-QUIT-NOW quitline.
Adjust your medicine.
Make your environment work for you.
Distract yourself.
Find safe substitutes for cigarettes.
Listen to what the urge says, then talk back!
Ride the waves!
Top of Page Adjust your medicine.
If your urges are hard to resist and you are using NRT, you may be able to use more.
For instance, if you are using a lower-dose patch, you can increase to a higher dose.
Or you can add the nicotine mini-lozenge or gum.
Learn more about combining medicines.
If you are using varenicline or bupropion, you can talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional about your urges, as well as using these other tips.
Top of Page Make your environment work for you, not for smoking.
You can change some things about your home, car, and work that will make it easier to quit and stay quit.
Tell people you’re quitting so they can support you.
Watch out for other temptations.
“No, I Won't Buy You Smokes” Low Resolution Video You never know when a decision you make could undermine your efforts to quit smoking.
James describes a moment he had with his roommate after he had resolved to stop smoking cigarettes.
James realized the potential for relapse and took steps to make sure that it didn’t happen.
Top of Page Distract yourself.
When you have an urge to smoke, it may feel like the only thing you can focus on.
Another way to deal with an urge is to drown it out by paying attention to something more interesting, important, or just different.
Why should you pay attention to an urge to smoke when you could do so many other things instead.
Practice before quitting: The good news is that urges rapidly fade, especially if you distract yourself Low Resolution Video Former smokers share their tips for quitting smoking.
Top of Page Find safe substitutes for cigarettes.
Find some substitutes for cigarettes for your mouth and hands.
Keep them close by when you quit.
Some ideas include: Use toothpicks, straws, or cinnamon sticks.
Use paper clips, pencils for doodling, or a squeeze ball.
Practice before quitting.
“I Told Everyone I Stopped Smoking” Low Resolution Video Beatrice describes things she did that helped her quit smoking.
Find out how she recognized and avoided triggers.
Top of Page Listen to what the urge says, then talk back!
Our minds are serving up thoughts to us all the time.
Often a thought seems overpowering, and we assume that because the thought came from inside our mind, it must be true.
But not all of our thoughts are true.
In fact, when it comes to urges, your thoughts are going to try and convince you it’s OK to have a cigarette.
You don’t have to listen!
What are some thoughts that tend to come up for you just before or during an urge?
As you become more aware of the thoughts you have around an urge, you can try out a new approach: Challenge the thoughts and try talking back to them.
Think carefully about the thought and see if you can figure out what is not true about it, or a way to talk back to it.
Click here for some examples: You can also couple “talking backs” with using a distraction or substitute to help them pass.
It is helpful to practice listening to urges and talking back before you quit.
For starters, write down two thoughts that you remember having recently when you had an urge to smoke.
Now, think about each of these thoughts, and write down a “talk back” response.
Top of Page Ride the waves!
Many people assume they have to do something about their urges to smoke—either give in or fight.
The feelings you get with an urge seem to demand action.
But you don’t have to give in, and you don’t have to fight.
If you just let the urge be, soon it will go away.
For most people, the urge will begin to dissolve after a few minutes.
Of course, you will get more urges later, but they will weaken with time.
Practice riding the wave a few times a day.
Then when you quit for good, you’ll be able to ride the waves like a pro!
All of these tactics to help deal with urges have been shown to help people who smoke to quit!
They work best if you practice them before quitting.
For more information, call 1-800-QUIT-NOW.
A quit coach can help you with these and many other tips.
It’s free and confidential!
Audio Description Low Resolution Video Watch a video about what you can expect when you call the quitline.
See the answers to 10 questions people ask about quitlines.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS National Health Interview Survey EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About NHIS About the Data Publications Early Release Program Health Insurance NHIS-Teen NHIS Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Survey VIEW ALL Related Topics: NHIS Participants View All 2019 NHIS Questionnaire Redesign For Everyone NOV.
20, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) updated the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) in 2019.
NCHS redesigned NHIS to better meet data users' needs.
Redesign goals included shortening the survey length and improving the ways health topics are measured.
Overview The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) collects and analyzes health data to monitor the health of people across the country—the U.S.
population.
In 2019, the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) redesigned NHIS to better meet data users' needs.
NCHS redesigned NHIS to— Improve how health topics are measured Shorten the length of the health interviews Establish a long-term survey structure, with topics covered every year and topics regularly rotated in and out of the survey of ongoing and periodic topics Ensure consistency with topics also covered by other federal health surveys Ensure content has a strong link to public health, like health behaviors and health care access Make use of advances in survey methods and practices Align with U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services agency goals, strategic plans, or initiatives NCHS estimates that NHIS will provide data from 27,000 sample adult and 9,000 sample child interviews for analysis each year.
The redesign allows data users to combine two or more years of samples to produce reliable estimates for population subgroups.
NHIS was previously redesigned in 1997.
Audio Description Transcript Low Resolution Video Questionnaire structure The 2019 NHIS redesigned adult and child sample questionnaires include four components.
Annual core questions Annual core questions are questions that appear on the survey every year.
These core questions focus on: Demographic characteristics.
like age, marital status, race, and ethnicity Health insurance coverage Chronic conditions Healthcare access and use Health-related behaviors, like smoking and other tobacco use Ability to perform daily activities (functioning) and disability 2.
Rotating core questions Rotating core questions are included in the survey on a regular schedule but are not included every year.
Rotating questions cover topics like— Mental health, including negative feelings and emotions (psychological distress) Use of health services, including services to identify and prevent health problems (preventive services) Health-related behaviors, like physical activity and sleep Injuries and chronic pain Allergies KEEP READING Questionnaires, Datasets, and Related Documentation 3.
Sponsored content Other federal agencies fund (or sponsor) some NHIS questions.
Agencies can sponsor content every year for multiple years.
This kind of content does not necessarily include the same questions every year.
Agencies also can sponsor content to be included in the survey multiple times but not every year.
Sponsored content has included questions about— Access to and ability to afford food (food security) Exams and tests to identify cancer before symptoms appear (cancer screening) Diverse medical products and practices used in addition to or instead of standard medical care (complementary and alternative medicine) Heart disease and stroke prevention The National Cancer Institute's website offers a proposed schedule of rotating sponsored questions about cancer is available on its website.
NHIS supplements by year and topic For years 1997–2019, click on the topic name for detailed information about sponsoring agency, questionnaires, and data file location.
Emerging content NCHS may add questions about new topics of growing interest.
For example, in 2019, NHIS collected information about opioid use and pain management.
Similarly, in 2020 and 2021, NHIS included questions about concussions.
Proposed content schedule NHIS supplements by year and topic NHIS questionnaires collect data about adults and children who have been "sampled," or randomly chosen to participate in NHIS.
These questionnaires are called the "sample adult questionnaire" and the "sample child questionnaire." These sample questionnaires outline NHIS topics that will be included in each year's survey from 2019 through 2027.
Sample Adult Content Schedule Sample Child Content Schedule ON THIS PAGE Overview Questionnaire structure Proposed content schedule RELATED PAGES About NHIS Methods About the Data Publications Early Release Program VIEW ALL National Health Interview Survey Methods SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Center for Health Statistics NCHS collects, analyzes, and disseminates timely, relevant, and accurate health data and statistics to inform the public and guide program and policy decisions to improve our nation’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone JANUARY 31, 2025 Health Effects of Cigarettes: Reproductive Health AT A GLANCE Smoking before or during pregnancy can cause serious health problems for the pregnant woman and her baby.
Secondhand smoke exposure is harmful during pregnancy and after the baby is born.
Smoking can cause fertility problems for both men and women.
Quitting smoking at any time during pregnancy can help protect a pregnant woman's health and give babies a healthier start on life.
Smoking and pregnancy Smoking before or during pregnancy can cause serious problems.
Smoking can cause pregnancy complications.
It can also harm the health of the pregnant woman and her baby.12 Complications and harms include:345 Pregnancy complications.
Smoking doubles the risk of abnormal bleeding during pregnancy and delivery.
This is dangerous for the pregnant woman and her baby.
Other complications include the premature rupture of membranes, placenta previa, placental abruption, and ectopic pregnancy.
Stillbirth.
Pregnant women who smoke are at greater risk of stillbirth.
Stillbirth is the loss of a baby after the 20th week of pregnancy or during birth.
Poor fetal growth and low birth weight.
Smoking slows a baby's growth before birth.
Pregnant women who smoke may deliver a baby that is too small, even after a full-term pregnancy.
Premature or preterm delivery.
Pregnant women who smoke may deliver a baby early, before 37 weeks of pregnancy.
Premature babies often have health problems.
Damage to a baby's developing lungs and brain.
Smoking can cause damage that can last through childhood and into the teen years.
Raising the risk for birth defects.
Birth defects include cleft lip, cleft palate, or both.
A cleft is an opening in a baby's lip or in the roof of the mouth (palate).
A baby with a cleft lip can have trouble eating.
The baby will likely need surgery to repair the cleft.
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
Smoking increases the risk for SIDS, the 'sudden and unexplained' death of a baby.
Smoking and fertility Smoking can cause fertility problems.
Smoking can make it more difficult for women to get pregnant and increases the risk of never becoming pregnant.34 Smoking also damage sperm.
It can also lead to impotence (erectile dysfunction, or ED).
Both problems can make it harder to father a baby.12 Secondhand smoke exposure and pregnancy Secondhand smoke exposure is harmful during pregnancy and after the baby is born.3 Secondhand smoke exposure during pregnancy causes lower birth weight.
It may also cause preterm delivery.
Babies exposed to secondhand smoke are at higher risk for SIDS.
They are also at risk for ear infections, lung infections, and decreased lung function.
Quitting smoking can benefit pregnant women and their babies Quitting smoking is important to have a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby.
The best time to quit smoking is before you try to get pregnant.
The next best time to quit is as early in pregnancy as possible.
But quitting at any time during pregnancy is helpful.
It can help protect a pregnant woman's health and give babies a healthier start on life.5 Quitting smoking:5 During pregnancy reduces the effects of smoking on the baby's growth.
Before or during early pregnancy reduces the risk for a small or lower birth weight baby.
May also reduce the risk of premature or preterm delivery and early menopause.
View Larger Quitting smoking can give your baby a healthier start on life.
Continue reading CDC.gov/quit Substance Use During Pregnancy Smoking, Pregnancy, and Babies E-Cigarettes and Pregnancy Maternal and Infant Health Tobacco Use and Cessation Resources Healthcare Providers ON THIS PAGE Smoking and pregnancy Smoking and fertility Secondhand smoke exposure and pregnancy Quitting smoking can benefit pregnant women and their babies Continue reading RELATED PAGES Cigarette Smoking Health Effects of Cigarettes: Cancer Health Effects of Cigarettes: Cardiovascular Disease Health Effects of Cigarettes: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) How to Quit Smoking Benefits of Quitting VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use How to Quit Smoking SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Per a court order, HHS is required to restore this website to its version as of 12:00 AM on January 29, 2025.
Information on this page may be modified and/or removed in the future subject to the terms of the court’s order and implemented consistent with applicable law.
Any information on this page promoting gender ideology is extremely inaccurate and disconnected from truth.
The Trump Administration rejects gender ideology due to the harms and divisiveness it causes.
This page does not reflect reality and therefore the Administration and this Department reject it.
Pride in Being Tobacco-Free JUNE 10, 2024 AT A GLANCE This Pride Month, consider taking the step to quit smoking and living a smokefree life.
Pride Month Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is a time to recognize, celebrate, and commemorate LGBTQ+ people.
Pride Month is also a time to focus on improving the health of LGBTQ+ people—like staying tobacco-free.
Use of cigarettes and other commercial tobacco products is higher among some population groups and communities, including lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) people, compared to heterosexual/straight people.
There are many reasons for this, including stress related to prejudice, stigma, and aggressive marketing by tobacco companies that sponsor events, promotions, giveaways, and advertisements targeting LGBTQ+ communities.
Though some people may smoke or vape to try to cope with stress, nicotine addiction from using these products can actually be a source of stress.
Quitting commercial tobacco product use, like smoking, can improve physical health.
This includes improving cardiovascular health and reducing the risk of cancer, among many other health benefits.
Quitting can also lower levels of anxiety, depression, and stress.
It can improve mood and quality of life.
Staying Tobacco-free Quitting smoking can be challenging, but it is possible, and help is available.
If you smoke and want to quit, there are proven ways to quit smoking and stay tobacco-free.
Quitting isn't about what you give up, it's about what you get back!
Angie P.'s Story Angie P., a member of the LGBTQ+ community, shares her story about quitting smoking.
is a member of the LGBTQ+ community and started smoking as a teenager.
She started smoking menthol cigarettes at age 15 because she wanted to mimic her mother's smoking.
Angie never felt like she belonged in her family or her community.
She knew she liked girls but thought being gay would be difficult for her family to accept.
In high school, she started hanging out with friends who smoked cigarettes and drank alcohol.
Angie realized that she would smoke every time she felt hurt or angry.
She smoked up to two packs a day as a teenager.
As an adult, Angie moved to Las Vegas to launch a professional singing career.
She struggled with substance use and lived on the street for two years.
Angie reached out for professional help and was able to end her alcohol and substance use.
But the one addiction she continued to struggle with was smoking.
At age 41, Angie overheard a group of people talking about a program that used an FDA-approved quit-smoking medicine.
Angie immediately signed up for the program.
Within a week of joining, Angie quit smoking for good.
Today, Angie shares her story to help others struggling with substance use and tobacco addiction.
Angie is also aware of the tobacco industry's aggressive advertising of cigarettes, especially menthol cigarettes, particularly to reach LGBTQ+ communities and communities of color.
As someone who is gay and African American, Angie feels the tobacco companies took advantage of her to profit from a harmful product.
"My hope is to help other people, especially LGBTQ+ people, understand what the tobacco companies are trying to do with their advertising.
I'd tell them it's not worth it to smoke," Angie said.
"Their lives and their health are worth more." Audio Description Low Resolution Video Quitting Resources Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions you can take to improve your health.
This is true regardless of your age or how long you have been smoking.
You can quit too.
Explore quit-smoking medicines and free quitting resources that have helped people quit!
Health equity and health disparities among LGBTQ+ people Many LBGTQ+ people have experienced harassment, discrimination, and forms of violence related to unfair and unjust practices, policies, and conditions.
This is true for other minority groups as well.
Experiences of discrimination and stressful social and environmental conditions are associated with commercial tobacco product and other substance use.
Use of these products can contribute to poor health outcomes.
LGBTQ+ people can also encounter barriers to successfully quitting tobacco use.
For instance, some LGBTQ+ people fear or experience discrimination or disrespect from medical professionals.
People who are afraid of discrimination from health professionals are less likely to seek medical care and they may be less likely to use proven treatment options.
Fewer LGB adults who smoke report using treatment (medication or counseling) to help them quit smoking, compared to straight adults who smoke.
Connecting every person who wants to quit smoking with treatment proven to help them successfully quit is important for improving people's health.
How to quit smoking This Pride Month, consider taking the step to quit smoking and living a smokefree life.
Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions you can take to improve your health.
This is true regardless of your age or how long you have been smoking.
Tools to help you quit smoking include: Calling a quitline: They provide free coaching—over the phone—to help you quit smoking.
When you call 1-800-QUIT-NOW, you can speak confidentially with a highly trained quit coach.
Quitlines are available throughout the United States, and coaching help is available in several languages.
Some quitlines offer text messaging support.
Texting The National Texting Portal: The portal connects you (adults 18 years of age and older in the United States) with mobile text message-based support to help you quit smoking.
Making a quit plan: Build My Quit Plan | Smokefree Quit-smoking medicines: Learn About Quit Smoking Medicines For more help, see Tips For Quitting.
ON THIS PAGE Pride Month Angie P.'s Story Health equity and health disparities among LGBTQ+ people How to quit smoking SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Preventing Seasonal Flu SEPT.
26, 2025 HIGHLIGHTS The best way to reduce your risk from seasonal flu and its potentially serious complications is to get a flu vaccine every year.
This page has resources to help answer your questions about flu vaccines.
Prevention steps and strategies Take time to get a flu vaccine.
Everyone 6 months and older should get a flu vaccine every season, especially people at higher risk.
CDC recommends a yearly flu vaccine as the first and most important action in reducing your risk of flu and its potentially serious outcomes.
For 2025-2026 flu season, CDC recommends seasonal flu vaccination for children, pregnant women, and adults with only single-dose formulations of flu vaccine that are free of thimerosal as a preservative.
Flu vaccines help to reduce the burden of flu illnesses, hospitalizations and deaths on the health care system each year.
(Read more about flu vaccine benefits.) Flu vaccination also has been shown to reduce the severity of illness in people who get vaccinated but still get sick.
All flu vaccines are designed to protect against three influenza viruses (Visit Vaccine Virus Selection for this season's vaccine composition.) Everyone 6 months and older should get an annual flu vaccine, ideally by the end of October but people should continue to get vaccinated as long as flu viruses pose a threat to their community.
Vaccination of people at higher risk of developing serious flu complications is especially important to decrease their risk of severe flu illness.
People at higher risk of serious flu complications include young children, pregnant women, people with certain chronic health conditions like asthma, diabetes or heart and lung disease, and people 65 years and older.
Vaccination also is important for health care workers and other people who live with or care for people at higher risk of serious flu illness to keep from spreading flu to them.
This is especially true for people who work in long-term care facilities, which are home to many of the people most vulnerable to flu.
Children younger than 6 months are at higher risk of serious flu illness but are too young to be vaccinated.
People who care for infants should be vaccinated instead.
Health care providers can support patients in making informed decisions about vaccinations.
Take everyday preventive actions to stop the spread of germs.
Take actions every day to help stop the spread of germs.
Getting a flu vaccine is the most important.
Take other preventive actions in addition to vaccination that may help reduce the spread of viruses like flu.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
If you are sick, limit contact with others as much as possible to keep from infecting them.
For flu, CDC recommends that people stay home, for at least 24 hours, until both are true: your symptoms are getting better overall, and you have not had fever (and are not using fever-reducing medication)*.
About Preventing Spread of Respiratory Viruses When You're Sick | What To Do If You Get Sick.
After these two criteria are met, there are some additional precautions that can be taken to protect others from respiratory illness.
These include taking steps for cleaner air and hygiene practices like cleaning frequently touched surfaces.
More information is available about core and additional prevention strategies.
Cover coughs and sneezes.
Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it.
Wearing a mask is an additional prevention strategy that you can choose to further protect yourself and others.
When worn by a person with an infection, masks reduce the spread of the virus to others.
Masks can also protect wearers from breathing in infectious particles from people around them.
Wash your hands often with soap and water.
If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand rub.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.
Germs spread this way.
You can improve air quality by bringing in fresh outside air, purifying indoor air, or gathering outdoors.
Cleaner air can reduce the risk of exposure to viruses.
Treatment Take flu antiviral drugs if your doctor prescribes them.
If you are sick with flu, antiviral drugs can be used to treat your illness.
Antiviral drugs are different from antibiotics.
They are prescription medicines (pills, liquid or an inhaled powder) and are not available over-the-counter.
Flu antiviral drugs can make flu illness milder and shorten the time you are sick.
They may also prevent serious flu complications.
For people at higher risk of serious flu illness, treatment with an antiviral drug can mean the difference between having a milder illness and having a very serious illness that could result in a hospital stay.
Studies show that flu antiviral drugs work best for treatment when they are started within 2 days of getting sick, but starting them later can still be helpful, especially if the sick person is at higher risk of severe flu illness or is very sick from flu.
If you are at higher risk of severe flu illness and get flu symptoms, call your health care provider early so you can be treated with flu antivirals if needed.
Follow your doctor's instructions for taking this drug.
Flu symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue.
Some people also may have vomiting and diarrhea.
People may be infected with influenza virus and have respiratory symptoms without a fever.
Visit CDC's website to find out what to do if you get sick with flu.
Learn about some of the similarities and differences between flu and COVID-19, and the difference between flu and the common cold.
There are prescription medications called “flu antiviral drugs” that can be used to treat flu illness.
ON THIS PAGE Prevention steps and strategies Treatment SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Health Care Providers MAY 15, 2024 Patient Cessation Materials AT A GLANCE These resources can help health care providers talk to their patients about quitting tobacco use.
Resources Health care providers can play a key role in decreasing cigarette smoking, the leading preventable cause of death and disease in the United States.
These resources can help you start a conversation with patients about cessation and remind them that quitting tobacco use is a commitment to better health.
Patient card Talk to your patients about their reasons for quitting.
Reasons to Quit Smoking patient card Reasons to Quit Smoking patient card in Spanish Order printed handout – Reasons to Quit Smoking patient card Patient tri-fold brochure Former smokers share their reasons for quitting.
Tips® Reasons to Quit Smoking patient tri-fold brochure Tips® Reasons to Quit Smoking patient tri-fold brochure in Spanish Order printed handout – Tips® Reasons to Quit Smoking patient tri-fold brochure More sharable resources Use these resources to help your patients quit smoking.
Notepads: These referral notepads for health care providers and counselors provide information about quit smoking resources, including the quitline, the National Texting Portal, and CDC.gov/quit.
Clinicians can order these notepads for free or download and print single pages.
How to Quit Smoking web page: Information and tips about quitting, including support resources such as quitlines, text message services, and apps.
Quit Smoking Medicines: Information for your patients about FDA-approved smoking cessation medications.
Media Campaign Resource Center: A collection of free and low-cost tobacco education campaign materials to support your communications efforts.
Learn more about patient care Clinical Cessation Tools Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources Clinical Education and Training Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation RELATED PAGES Patient Care Clinical Cessation Tools Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources Clinical Education and Training Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All For Everyone AUGUST 26, 2024 ESPAÑOL Helpful Tips for Protecting Youth from the Harms of Vaping AT A GLANCE E-cigarettes, or vapes, are battery-operated devices that heat a liquid and produce an aerosol.
Vapes come in many shapes and sizes, and they typically contain nicotine.
No tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, are safe, especially for youth.
Parents, educators, and health care providers play an important role in helping youth reject or quit tobacco use, including e-cigarette use.
Talk with them about the risks, and empower them to practice healthy behaviors and positive coping skills.
Vaping, Youth, and Stress E-cigarettes, or vapes, are battery-operated devices that heat a liquid and produce an aerosol.
Vapes come in many shapes and sizes, and they typically contain nicotine.
No tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, are safe.
This is especially true for youth, whose brains are still developing until about age 25.
Using nicotine during these years can harm the parts of the brain that control attention, learning, mood, and impulse control.
There are many reasons youth might vape.
Many students who vape report using e-cigarettes because they feel anxious, stressed, or depressed.
E-cigarette marketing and advertising, the availability of appealing flavors, social influences, and the effects of nicotine all play a role in why youth start and/or continue to vape.
The most common reason students give for trying an e-cigarette is because a friend used them.
The most common reason students give for currently using e-cigarettes is feeling anxious, stressed, or depressed.
Nicotine is highly addictive.
Nicotine addiction can harm mental health and be a source of stress.
Nicotine addiction or withdrawal can contribute to feelings of stress, anxiety, and depression, or make these feelings worse.
Youth might use tobacco products to relieve their symptoms, which can lead to a cycle of nicotine addiction.
Parents, educators, and health care providers are trusted sources of information for youth.
They can talk to youth about vaping and help them learn healthy coping skills instead of vaping such as: Recognizing and managing stressful feelings.
Help youth identify what causes their stress or anxiety and help them proactively manage stress when they start feeling this way.
Practicing relaxation techniques.
Encourage positive stress management techniques, like meditation, listening to music, or deep breathing.
Building a support system.
Provide support when youth feel stressed and encourage them to reach out to family and friends.
Practicing self-care.
Teach youth how they can manage their feelings of stress by taking care of themselves, including eating a balanced diet, drinking plenty of water, and getting enough sleep.
Staying active.
Empower youth to manage their stress and anxiety by getting physical activity every day.
E-cigarette Use Among Youth E-cigarettes are the most commonly used tobacco product among U.S.
In 2023, 2.1 million (7.7%) students currently used e-cigarettes.
This includes: 550,000 (4.6%) middle school students.
1.56 million (10.0%) high school students.
Resources for Parents, Educators, and Health Care Providers‎ No tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, are safe, especially for children, teens, and young adults.
Learn how to protect youth from the harms of vaping with resources from the Empower Vape-Free Youth Campaign.
How To Support Youth To Quit Vaping Many youth who vape want to quit and have tried to quit.
However, nicotine addiction can make quitting hard.
Like quitting smoking, people may experience withdrawal symptoms when they quit vaping.
Youth may not know where to start or what resources are available to help them quit.
There are many free and low-cost resources available to help, some designed specifically for teens who vape .
Individuals and organizations can play an important role in helping youth reject or quit vaping and all other tobacco products.
Parents, educators, and health care providers all play important roles in helping youth reject or quit tobacco use, including vaping.
Working together will help ensure that youth live healthy, tobacco-free lives.
Parents and educators can: Help youth develop skills to safely cope with stress.
Help youth resist social pressure to vape.
Educators can: Encourage students to build a support system of family, friends, and educators who will help them stay vape-free.
Empower youth to talk to a doctor or other health care provider about treatment options.
Health care providers can: Ask patients if they use any tobacco products, including e-cigarettes.
Inform patients who vape about treatment options and quitting support resources.
Learn about health care provider resources.
Resources to help There are many free resources available to help youth reject or quit tobacco use, including vaping.
Resources to Help Youth Reject or Quit Vaping | Smoking and Tobacco Use | CDC For Parents: E-cigarettes and Youth: What Parents Need to Know (cdc.gov) For Educators: Fact Sheet: Understanding Vaping and Other Tobacco Product Us Among Youth (cdc.gov) Conversation Card: How to Talk to Students about Vaping (cdc.gov) Quitting Resources: Home | Smokefree Teen and Quit Vaping | Smokefree Teen SmokefreeTXT for Teens | Smokefree Teen State quitlines (1-800-QUIT-NOW and 1-855-DÉJELO-YA) ON THIS PAGE Vaping, Youth, and Stress E-cigarette Use Among Youth How To Support Youth To Quit Vaping Resources to help RELATED PAGES Smoking and Tobacco Use Features Be Ready and Determined by Being Tobacco-Free Pride Month The Great American Smokeout 1-800-QUIT-NOW: 15 Years of Helping People Quit World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Be Ready and Determined by Being Tobacco-Free SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Cold Versus Flu For Everyone AUG.
8, 2024 ESPAÑOL PURPOSE Influenza (flu) and the common cold are both contagious respiratory illnesses, but they are caused by different viruses.
Colds and flu share many symptoms, so it can be difficult to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone.
Cold symptoms are usually milder than flu.
Special tests can tell if a person is sick with flu.
Differences between cold and flu Influenza (flu) and the common cold are both contagious respiratory illnesses, but they are caused by different viruses.
Flu is caused by influenza viruses only, whereas the common cold can be caused by a number of different viruses, including rhinoviruses, parainfluenza, and seasonal coronaviruses.
Seasonal coronaviruses should not be confused with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.
Because flu and the common cold have similar symptoms, it can be difficult to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone.
In general, flu is worse than the common cold, and symptoms are typically more intense and begin more abruptly.
Colds are usually milder than flu.
People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose than people who have flu.
Colds generally do not result in serious health problems, such as pneumonia, bacterial infections, or hospitalizations.
Flu can have serious associated complications.
Key differences between cold and flu Because colds and flu share many symptoms, it can be difficult (or even impossible) to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone.
Special tests can tell if a person is sick with flu.
Flu symptoms vs.
cold symptoms The signs and symptoms of flu can include fever or feeling feverish/chills, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, muscle or body aches, headaches, and fatigue (tiredness).
Cold symptoms are usually milder than the symptoms of flu.
People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose.
Colds generally do not result in serious health problems.
ON THIS PAGE Differences between cold and flu Flu symptoms vs.
cold symptoms RELATED PAGES About Similarities and Differences between Flu and COVID-19 Types of Influenza Viruses Flu Season Signs and Symptoms VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Similarities and Differences between Flu and COVID-19 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Similarities and Differences between Flu and COVID-19 SEPT.
17, 2024 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW This page describes the differences and similarities between flu and COVID-19.
How flu and COVID-19 are different Influenza (flu) and COVID-19 are both contagious respiratory illnesses, but they are caused by different viruses.
COVID-19 is caused by infection with a coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) first identified in 2019.
Flu is caused by infection with an influenza virus.
From what we know, COVID-19 spreads more easily than flu.
Efforts to maximize the proportion of people in the United States who are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccines remain critical to reducing the risk of severe COVID-19 illness and death.
More information is available about staying up to date with COVID-19 vaccines and how well they work.
COVID-19 More information on COVID-19 symptoms and testing is available.
Compared with flu, COVID-19 can cause more severe illness in some people.
Compared to people infected with influenza virus, people infected with SARS-CoV-2 may take longer to show symptoms and may be contagious for longer periods of time.
You cannot tell the difference between flu and COVID-19 by the symptoms alone because many of the signs and symptoms are the same.
Testing is needed to confirm a diagnosis.
Having a medical professional administer a test that detects both flu and COVID-19 allows you to get diagnosed and treated for the specific virus you have more quickly.
Getting treated early for COVID-19 and flu can reduce your risk of getting very sick.
Testing can also reveal if someone has both flu and COVID-19 at the same time, although this is uncommon.
People with flu and COVID-19 at the same time can have more severe illness than people with either flu or COVID-19 alone.
Additionally, some people with COVID-19 may also be affected by Long COVID.
We are learning more everyday about COVID-19 and the virus that causes it.
This page compares COVID-19 and flu, given the best available information to date.
How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 How to protect yourself and others from flu Signs and symptoms Similarities Both COVID-19 and flu can have varying degrees of symptoms, ranging from no symptoms (asymptomatic) to severe symptoms.
Common symptoms that COVID-19 and flu share include: Fever or feeling feverish/having chills (Not everyone with flu will have a fever.) Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue (tiredness) Sore throat Runny or stuffy nose Muscle pain or body aches Headache Vomiting Diarrhea (more frequent in children with flu, but can occur in any age with COVID-19) Change in or loss of taste or smell, although this is more frequent with COVID-19.
Signs and Symptoms of Flu Symptoms of COVID-19 How long symptoms appear after exposure and infection Similarities For both COVID-19 and flu, one or more days can pass from when a person becomes infected to when they start to experience symptoms of illness.
It is possible to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19 without experiencing any symptoms.
It is also possible to be infected with influenza viruses without having any symptoms.
Differences If a person has COVID-19, it could take them longer from the time of infection to experience symptoms than if they have flu.
Flu Typically, a person may experience symptoms anywhere from one to four days after infection.
KEEP READING Signs and Symptoms of Flu COVID-19 Typically, a person may experience symptoms anywhere from two to five days, and up to 14 days after infection.
KEEP READING Symptoms of COVID-19 How long someone can spread the virus Differences If a person has COVID-19, they could be contagious for a longer time than if they have flu.
Flu People with influenza virus infection are potentially contagious for about one day before they show symptoms.
However, it is believed that flu is spread mainly by people who are symptomatic with influenza virus infection.
Older children and adults with flu are most contagious during the first three days of their illness, but some people might remain contagious for slightly longer periods.
Young children and people with weakened immune systems may be contagious for longer periods of time.
KEEP READING How Flu Spreads COVID-19 On average, people can begin spreading the virus that causes COVID-19 two to three days before their symptoms begin, but infectiousness peaks one day before their symptoms begin.
People can also spread the virus that causes COVID-19 without experiencing any symptoms.
On average, people are considered contagious for about eight days after their symptoms began.
KEEP READING About COVID-19 How it spreads Similarities Both COVID-19 and flu can spread from person to person between people who are near or in close contact with one another.
Both are spread mainly by large and small particles containing virus that are expelled when people with the illness (COVID-19 or flu) cough, sneeze, or talk.
These particles can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby and possibly be inhaled into the respiratory tract.
In some circumstances, such as indoor settings with poor ventilation, small particles containing virus might be spread longer distances and cause infections.
Most spread is by inhalation of large and small droplets; however, it may be possible that a person can get infected by touching another person (for example, shaking hands with someone who has the virus on their hands), or by touching a surface or object that has virus on it, and then touching their own mouth, nose, or eyes.
The virus that causes COVID-19 can be spread to others by people before they begin showing symptoms, by people with very mild symptoms, and by people who never experienced symptoms (asymptomatic people).
Differences While the virus that causes COVID-19 and influenza viruses are thought to spread in similar ways, the virus that causes COVID-19 is generally more contagious than influenza viruses.
Also, COVID-19 has been observed to have more superspreading events than flu.
This means the virus that causes COVID-19 can quickly and easily spread to a lot of people and result in continual spreading among people as time progresses.
How Flu Spreads About COVID-19 People at higher risk for severe illness Similarities Both COVID-19 and flu can cause severe illness and complications resulting in hospitalization and death, even in healthy people.
Those at increased risk of severe illness include: Older adults, particularly those 65 years and older People with certain underlying medical conditions Pregnant women Infants (both COVID-19 and flu) Children (flu) Differences Overall, flu seems to cause more severe illness in young children than COVID-19.
Some people that had COVID-19 can go on to develop Long COVID or multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) Complications Similarities Both COVID-19 and flu can result in complications, including: Pneumonia Respiratory failure Acute respiratory distress syndrome (fluid in the lungs) Sepsis (a life-threatening illness caused by the body's extreme response to an infection) Cardiac injury (for example, heart attacks and stroke) Multiple-organ failure (respiratory failure, kidney failure, shock) Worsening of chronic medical conditions (involving the lungs, heart, or nervous system or diabetes) Inflammation of the heart, brain, or muscle tissues Secondary infections (bacterial or fungal infections that can occur in people with flu or COVID-19) Differences Flu Most people who get flu will recover on their own in a few days to two weeks, but some people will experience severe complications, requiring hospitalization.
Some of these complications are listed above.
Secondary bacterial infections are more common with influenza than with COVID-19.
KEEP READING Signs and Symptoms of Flu COVID-19 Additional complications associated with COVID-19 can include: Blood clots in the veins and arteries of the lungs, heart, legs or brain Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in children (MIS-C) and in adults (MIS-A) Anyone who has had COVID-19, even if their illness was mild or if they had no symptoms, can experience Long COVID.
Long COVID can include a wide range of ongoing symptoms and conditions that can last weeks, months, or even years after COVID-19 illness.
Approved treatments Similarities People at higher risk of complications or who have been hospitalized for COVID-19 or flu should receive recommended treatments and supportive medical care to help relieve symptoms and prevent complications.
Differences Flu Prescription influenza antiviral drugs are FDA-approved to treat flu.
These antiviral drugs are only for treatment of flu and not COVID-19.
People who are hospitalized with flu or who are at increased risk of complications and have suspected or confirmed flu are recommended to be treated with antiviral drugs as soon as possible after illness onset.
KEEP READING Treatment of Flu COVID-19 FDA has authorized or approved several antiviral medications used to treat mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in people who are more likely to get very sick.
Treatment must be started within five to seven days of when symptoms first start.
The Infectious Diseases Society of America provides Guidelines on the Treatment and Managment of Patients with COVID-19 for health care providers to help them work with their patients and determine the best treatment options for their patients.
KEEP READING COVID-19 Vaccine Similarities: Vaccines for COVID-19 and flu are approved or authorized for emergency use (EUA) by FDA.
Differences Flu There are multiple FDA-licensed influenza vaccines produced annually to protect against the three flu viruses that scientists expect will circulate during the upcoming season.
KEEP READING Key Facts About Seasonal Flu Vaccine COVID-19 Multiple COVID-19 vaccines are authorized or approved for use in the United States to help prevent COVID-19.
COVID-19 vaccines Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines ON THIS PAGE How flu and COVID-19 are different Signs and symptoms How long symptoms appear after exposure and infection How long someone can spread the virus How it spreads People at higher risk for severe illness Complications Approved treatments Vaccine SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Smoking and Tobacco Use EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Cigarette Smoking Secondhand Smoke E-cigarettes (Vapes) Menthol Tobacco Products Nicotine Pouches Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) About Surveys Other Tobacco Products VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation Patient Care VIEW ALL Public Health Funding Opportunity Announcements Scientific Evidence Briefs Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States Youth and Tobacco Use Smoking Cessation: Fast Facts Economic Trends in Tobacco Tobacco Industry Spending State and Community Work VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tobacco - Health Equity | Tobacco - Surgeon General's Reports | State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System | Global Tobacco Control View All Health Care Providers MAY 15, 2024 Clinical Education and Training AT A GLANCE The training resources on this page can help you support your patients and help them quit.
Education and training resources Talking to patients about quitting tobacco and tracking their quit progress helps them understand that, as a clinician, you are on their side.
However, you may not be sure how to start the conversation.
Below are training resources offering evidence-based information and practical advice to support you in helping patients quit.
Talk to your patients and let them know you are on their side.
Rx for Change: Clinician-Assisted Tobacco Cessation.
A comprehensive tobacco cessation training program for health professionals of all disciplines.
This program aims to equip clinicians with evidence-based knowledge and skills to assist patients with quitting tobacco use.
Health Care Provider Training Videos from the University of Wisconsin Center for Tobacco Research and Intervention .
Multiple training videos aimed at outpatient, inpatient, and behavioral health care providers from a variety of specialties.
Includes training on using motivational interviewing to help patients quit smoking.
The University of Arizona HealthCare Partnership Nicotine Dependence Treatment Continuing Education & Certification Programs Smoking cessation video resources Counseling and Medication Can Help Your Patients Quit Smoking Audio Description Low Resolution Video Helping your patients quit smoking is one of the most important ways you can improve their health.
Learn how to help them quit for good: CDC.gov/TobaccoHCP.
Health Care Professionals: Advise Your Patients to Quit Smoking Audio Description Low Resolution Video Helping your patients quit smoking can have positive health benefits, no matter their age or how long they have smoked.
Learn how to help your patients quit for good: CDC.gov/TobaccoHCP.
Tobacco Dependence Is Treatable Audio Description Low Resolution Video Tobacco dependence is treatable, and you can play a critical role in helping patients quit smoking.
Learn how to help your patients quit for good: CDC.gov/TobaccoHCP.
Quitlines Support Your Patients to Quit Smoking Audio Description Low Resolution Video When your patients who smoke call a quitline, trained counselors will help them build a quit plan and discuss medications.
The counselor will also connect them to other free resources to help them quit.
Refer your patients who smoke to your state quitline through 1-800-QUIT-NOW.
Quitlines Can Help Your Patients Quit Smoking Audio Description Low Resolution Video Combined with your support, calling a quitline can help your patients quit smoking for good.
Refer your patients who smoke to your state quitline through 1-800-QUIT-NOW.
Help Your Pregnant Patients Quit Smoking Audio Description Low Resolution Video If you have patients who smoke and are pregnant or planning to get pregnant, you can play a key role in helping them quit—for their health and the health of their baby.
Learn how to help them quit for good: CDC.gov/TobaccoHCP.
Learn more about patient care Clinical Cessation Tools Patient Cessation Materials Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation ON THIS PAGE Education and training resources Smoking cessation video resources Learn more about patient care RELATED PAGES Patient Care Clinical Cessation Tools Patient Cessation Materials Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation VIEW ALL Smoking and Tobacco Use Patient Care Settings and Smoking Cessation SOURCES PRINT SHARE Smoking and Tobacco Use Commercial tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Flu Season For Everyone SEPT.
26, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW While seasonal influenza (flu) viruses are detected year-round in the United States, influenza viruses typically circulate during the fall and winter during what's known as the flu season.
Flu season in the United States In the United States, flu season usually occurs in the fall and winter.
While influenza viruses spread year-round, most of the time flu activity peaks between December and February.
The overall health impact (e.g., infections, hospitalizations, and deaths) of flu varies from season to season.
CDC collects, compiles, and analyzes information on influenza activity year-round in the United States and produces FluView, a weekly surveillance report, and FluView Interactive, which allows for more in-depth exploration of influenza surveillance data.
The Weekly U.S.
Influenza Summary Update is updated weekly year-round.
KEEP READING Weekly U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report Peak activity The figure below shows peak flu activity in the United States by month for the 1982-1983 through 2023-2024 flu seasons.
The "peak month of flu activity" is the month with the highest percentage of respiratory specimens testing positive for influenza virus infection during that flu season.
During this 40-year period, flu activity most often peaked in February (17 seasons), followed by December (7 seasons), January (6 seasons) and March (6 seasons).
KEEP READING U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods Flu activity peak months in the U.S.
from the 1982-1983 through 2023-2024 flu seasons CDC monitors the progress of flu season The overall health impact (e.g., infections, hospitalizations, and deaths) from flu varies from season to season.
CDC collects, compiles, and analyzes information on influenza activity year-round in the United States and produces FluView, a weekly surveillance report, and FluView Interactive, which allows for more in-depth exploration of influenza surveillance data.
Both are updated each week.
Weekly U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report FluView Interactive The U.S.
influenza surveillance system is a collaborative effort between CDC and its many partners in state and local health departments, public health and clinical laboratories, vital statistics offices, health care providers, long term care facilities, hospitals, and clinics and emergency departments.
Information in five categories is collected from 10 different data sources that allow CDC to: Find out when and where influenza activity is occurring; Track influenza-related illness; Determine what influenza viruses are circulating; Detect changes in influenza viruses; and Measure the impact influenza is having on hospitalizations and deaths in the United States.
These surveillance components allow CDC to determine when and where flu activity is occurring, determine what types of influenza viruses are circulating, detect changes in the influenza viruses collected and analyzed, track patterns of influenza-related illness, and measure the impact of influenza in the United States.
Understanding why a week-long delay exists between flu surveillance data collection and reporting Flu surveillance data collection is based on a reporting week that starts on Sunday and ends on the following Saturday of each week.
Each surveillance participant is requested to summarize the weekly data and submit it to CDC by the following Tuesday afternoon.
The data are then downloaded, compiled, and analyzed at CDC.
The data are used to update FluView and FluView Interactive on the following Friday.
KEEP READING U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods Other respiratory viruses In addition to influenza viruses, several other respiratory viruses also spread during flu season and can cause symptoms similar to those seen with flu infection.
These respiratory viruses include rhinovirus (one cause of the "common cold"), the virus that causes COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), which is the most common cause of severe respiratory illness in young children as well as a leading cause of death from respiratory illness in those aged 65 years and older.
Other commonly circulating respiratory viruses include human parainfluenza viruses (HPIV), human metapneumovirus (HMPV), respiratory adenoviruses, and human coronaviruses other than those that cause COVID-19.
More information about non-influenza respiratory viruses is available.
ON THIS PAGE Flu season in the United States Peak activity CDC monitors the progress of flu season Other respiratory viruses RELATED PAGES About Cold Versus Flu Similarities and Differences between Flu and COVID-19 Types of Influenza Viruses Signs and Symptoms VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Signs and Symptoms SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Types of Influenza Viruses For Everyone SEPT.
26, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW There are four types of influenza viruses: A, B, C, and D.
Influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal epidemics of disease in people (known as flu season) almost every winter in the United States.
Influenza virus basics Influenza A viruses are the only influenza viruses known to cause flu pandemics (i.e., global epidemics of flu disease).
A pandemic can occur when a new and different influenza A virus emerges that infects people, can spread efficiently among people, and against which people have little or no immunity.
Influenza C virus infections generally cause mild illness and are not thought to cause human epidemics.
Influenza D viruses primarily affect cattle with spillover to other animals but are not known to cause illness in people.
View Larger This is a picture of an influenza (flu) A virus.
Influenza A viruses are classified by subtypes based on the properties of their hemagglutinin (H or HA) and neuraminidase (N or NA) surface proteins.
There are 18 different HA subtypes and 11 different...
Show More Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N).
There are 18 hemagglutinin subtypes and 11 neuraminidase subtypes (H1 through H18 and N1 through N11, respectively).
While more than 130 influenza A subtype combinations have been identified in nature, primarily from wild birds, there are potentially many more influenza A subtype combinations given the propensity for influenza viruses to “reassort”.
Reassortment is when influenza viruses swap gene segments.
It can occur when two different subtypes of influenza viruses infect a host at the same time and swap genetic information.
Current subtypes of influenza A viruses that routinely circulate in people include A(H1N1) and A(H3N2).
Influenza B viruses do not have subtypes but are distinguished by their lineage.
Influenza A virus subtypes and Influenza B virus lineages can be further broken down into different HA genetic “clades” and “sub-clades.” See the “Influenza Viruses” graphic below for a visual depiction of these classifications.
View Larger Influenza Viruses Types Cause Flu Season Influenza A (Influenza virus types responsible for most human illness and the flu season) Influenza B Influenza C (Not significant for public health) Influenza D (Mainly infect cows) Subtypes A(H1N1) A(H3N2) L...
Show More Clades and sub-clades Clades and sub-clades can be alternatively called "groups" and "sub-groups," respectively.
An influenza clade or group is a further classification of influenza viruses (beyond subtypes or lineages) based on the similarity of their HA gene sequences.
Other gene segments also can be broken into clades and sub-clades.
(See the Genome Sequencing and Genetic Characterization page for more information).
Clades and subclades are shown on phylogenetic trees as groups of viruses that usually have similar genetic changes (i.e., nucleotide or amino acid changes) and have a common ancestor represented as a node in the tree (see Figure 1).
Dividing viruses into clades and subclades helps flu experts track the proportion of viruses from different clades in circulation.
Figure 1 – This is a picture of a phylogenetic tree.
Phylogenetic trees show how closely related viruses are to one another.
Phylogenetic trees of influenza viruses usually show how similar the viruses’ hemagglutinin (H or HA) or neuraminidase (N or ...
Show More Note that clades and sub-clades that are genetically different are not necessarily antigenically different.
This is best explained by first introducing the concepts of "antigens" and "antigenic properties".
As previously described, influenza viruses have hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N) surface proteins.
These proteins act as antigens.
Antigens are molecular structures/proteins on the surface of viruses that are recognized by the immune system and can trigger an immune response (such as antibody production).
The antigenic properties of a virus are a reflection of the antibody or immune response triggered by the specific antigens on that virus.
When two influenza viruses are antigenically different, this means that a host's immune response (antibodies) elicited by infection or vaccination with one of the viruses will not as easily recognize and/or neutralize the other virus.
Therefore, for antigenically different viruses, immunity against one of the viruses will not necessarily protect against the other virus.
Conversely, when two influenza viruses are antigenically similar, a host's immune response (antibodies) elicited by infection or vaccination with one of the viruses will recognize and neutralize the other virus, thereby protecting against the other virus as well.
Influenza A(H1N1) viruses Currently circulating influenza A(H1N1) viruses are descendants of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic virus that emerged in the spring of 2009 and caused a flu pandemic (CDC 2009 H1N1 Flu website).
These viruses, scientifically called the "A(H1N1)pdm09 virus," and more generally called "2009 H1N1," have continued to circulate seasonally since 2009 and have undergone genetic and antigenic changes.
Influenza A(H3N2) viruses also change genetically and antigenically.
Influenza A(H3N2) viruses have formed many separate, genetically different clades in recent years that continue to co-circulate.
Influenza B viruses are not divided into subtypes, but instead are further classified into two lineages: B/Yamagata and B/Victoria.
Similar to influenza A viruses, influenza B viruses can then be further classified into specific clades and sub-clades.
Influenza B viruses generally change more slowly in terms of their genetic and antigenic properties than influenza A viruses, especially influenza A(H3N2) viruses.
B/Yamagata viruses have not been detected after March 2020.
Naming influenza viruses CDC follows an internationally accepted naming convention for influenza viruses.
The approach uses the following components: The antigenic type (i.e., A, B, C, D) The host of origin (e.g., swine, equine, chicken, etc.).
For human-origin viruses, no host of origin designation is given.
Note the following examples: (Duck example): avian influenza A(H1N1), A/duck/Alberta/35/76 (Human example): seasonal influenza A(H3N2), A/Perth/16/2019 Geographical origin (e.g., Denver, Taiwan, etc.) Strain number (e.g., 7, 15, etc.) Year of collection (e.g., 57, 2009, etc.) For influenza A viruses, the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase antigen description are provided in parentheses (e.g., influenza A(H1N1) virus, influenza A(H5N1) virus) The 2009 pandemic virus was assigned a distinct name: A(H1N1)pdm09 to distinguish it from the seasonal influenza A(H1N1) viruses that circulated prior to the pandemic.
When humans are infected with influenza viruses that normally circulate in swine (pigs), these viruses are call variant viruses and are designated with the letter "v" (e.g., an A(H3N2)v virus).
Figure 2 – This image shows how influenza viruses are named.
The name starts with the virus type, followed by the place the virus was isolated, followed by the virus strain number (often a sample identifier), the year isolated, and finally, the virus...
Show More Influenza vaccine viruses Seasonal flu vaccines in the United States are formulated to protect against three influenza viruses known to cause human epidemics, including: one influenza A(H1N1) virus, one influenza A(H3N2) virus, and one influenza B/Victoria lineage virus.
Getting a flu vaccine can reduce the risk of infection with representative or antigenically similar viruses.
Information about the composition of this season's vaccine can be found at Preventing Seasonal Flu with Vaccination.
Seasonal flu vaccines do not protect against influenza C or D viruses or against zoonotic (animal-origin) influenza viruses that can cause human infections, such as variant or avian (bird) influenza viruses.
In addition, flu vaccines will NOT protect against infection and illness caused by other respiratory viruses.
There are many other viruses besides influenza that can result in influenza-like illness (ILI) that spread during flu season.
ON THIS PAGE Influenza virus basics Clades and sub-clades Influenza A(H1N1) viruses Naming influenza viruses Influenza vaccine viruses RELATED PAGES About Cold Versus Flu Similarities and Differences between Flu and COVID-19 Flu Season Signs and Symptoms VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Flu Season SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All COVID-19 Vaccines JULY 30, 2025 ESPAÑOL PURPOSE Learn about COVID-19 vaccine recommendations, what to expect when getting a vaccine, and vaccine effectiveness.
Resources Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines People who are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccine have lower risk of severe illness.
Getting Your COVID-19 Vaccine Learn how to schedule and know what to expect at your COVID-19 appointment.
COVID-19 Vaccine Basics Learn how COVID-19 vaccines help our bodies develop immunity to the virus that causes COVID-19.
Benefits of Getting Vaccinated Find out why you should get the COVID-19 vaccine and how it protects you from getting sick.
Vaccines for Moderately to Severely Immunocompromised People COVID-19 vaccine information for people who are moderately or severely immunocompromised.
COVID-19 Vaccination for People Who Would Like to Have a Baby Information on COVID-19 vaccines for people who would like to have a baby.
COVID-19 Vaccination for Women Who Are Pregnant or Breastfeeding What you need to know about COVID-19 vaccines if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
COVID-19 Vaccination for Long-term Care Residents Information about COVID-19 vaccines for long-term care residents.
Vaccine Effectiveness Information for public health professionals and researchers on COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Public Health SEPTEMBER 17, 2024 ESPAÑOL Antigenic Characterization WHAT TO KNOW Proteins on the surface of the virus particles are recognized by the immune system which triggers one kind of immune response.
These surface proteins are called antigens.
Antigenic characterization refers to the analysis of antigenic properties of viruses to examine their relatedness.
CDC antigenically characterizes viruses to monitor for changes in circulating viruses and to compare how similar these viruses are to those included in flu vaccines.
About Two proteins (hemagglutinin and neuraminidase) on the surface of flu viruses represent the major antigens targeted by antibodies (see Figure 1).
When someone is exposed to a flu virus (either through infection or vaccination) their immune system makes specific antibodies against the antigens on that particular flu virus.
The term "antigenic properties" is used to describe the immune response triggered by the antigens on a particular virus.
"Antigenic characterization" refers to the analysis of a virus's antigenic properties to help assess how related it is to another virus.
CDC antigenically characterizes about 2,000 flu viruses during a typical flu season to monitor for changes in circulating viruses and to compare how similar these viruses are to those included in flu vaccines.
Antigenic characterization can give an indication of the flu vaccine's ability to produce an immune response against the flu viruses circulating in people.
This information also helps experts decide what viruses should be included in the upcoming season's flu vaccine.
Genetic sequencing and Serology tests using human sera provide additional information about how similar circulating flu viruses are to vaccine viruses or other flu viruses.
Flu Virus Features Show Text Description The Hemagglutination Inhibition Assay (HI Test) Scientists use a test called the hemagglutination inhibition assay (HI test) to antigenically characterize flu viruses.
HA proteins on the surface of flu viruses can bind to RBC and “glue” them together, forming a lattice structure (this is known as “hemagglutination”).
The picture below provides an example of hemagglutination.
The image shows what hemagglutination looks like in the well of a microtiter plate.
The HI test works by measuring how well antibodies bind to the HA proteins and prevent them from “gluing” red blood cells together (i.e., hemagglutination inhibition).
The picture below provides an example of hemagglutination inhibition.
The rightmost section of the image shows what hemagglutination inhibition looks like in the well of a microtiter plate.
Scientists use the HI test to assess the antigenic similarity between different flu viruses.
This test helps to select candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs), which can then be included in seasonal flu vaccines.
HI test results can tell us whether antibodies developed after vaccination (or infection) with one virus can recognize and bind to other viruses, which means these other viruses are similar to the vaccine virus.
Scientists also use the HI test to compare the antigenic properties (i.e., the virus' ability to be recognized by antibodies) of currently circulating flu viruses with those of flu viruses that have circulated in the past.
The HI test involves three main components: antibodies, flu virus, and red blood cells that are mixed together in the wells (i.e., cups) of a microtiter plate (See Image 1.
A Microtiter Plate A microtiter plate is used to perform the HI test.
The plate contains wells (i.e., cup-like depressions that can hold a small amount of liquid) where the solution of antibodies, flu virus and red blood cells are inserted and allowed to interact.
The antibodies used in the HI test are obtained by infecting an animal (usually a ferret) that is immunologically naïve (i.e., it has not been exposed to any flu virus or vaccine previously in its lifetime).
The animal's immune system creates antibodies in response to the antigens on the surface of the particular flu virus that was used to infect that animal.
To study these antibodies, a sample of blood is drawn from the animal, from which serum is obtained.
The HI test measures how well the antibodies in the serum recognize and bind to other flu viruses (such as, flu viruses isolated from flu patients).
If the ferret antibodies that resulted from infection to the vaccine virus recognize and bind well to the flu virus from a sick patient, this indicates that the vaccine virus is antigenically similar to the flu virus obtained from the sick patient.
This finding has implications for how well the vaccine might work in people.
KEEP READING: Effectiveness Against Different Flu Viruses As previously mentioned, the flu viruses used in the HI test are obtained from sick people.
CDC and other WHO collaborating centers collect specimens from people all over the world to track which flu viruses are infecting humans and to monitor how these viruses are changing.
KEEP READING: Selecting Viruses for the Seasonal Influenza Vaccine For the HI test, red blood cells (RBCs) are taken from animals (usually turkeys or guinea pigs).
They are used in the HI test because flu viruses bind to them.
Normally, RBCs in a solution will sink to the bottom of the microtiter plate well and form a red dot at the bottom (Figure 2A).
However, when an flu virus is added to the RBC solution, the virus' hemagglutinin (HA) surface proteins will bind to multiple RBCs.
When flu viruses bind to the RBCs, the RBCs form a lattice structure (Figure 2B).
This keeps the RBCs suspended in solution instead of sinking to the bottom and forming the red dot.
The process of the flu virus binding to RBCs to form the lattice structure is called "hemagglutination." Figure 2.
Components of the HI Assay The HI test involves the interaction of red blood cells (RBCs), antibody and flu virus.
Row A shows that in the absence of virus, RBCs in a solution will sink to the bottom of a microtiter plate well and look like a red dot.
Row B shows that flu viru...
Show More When antibodies are pre-mixed with flu virus followed by RBCs, the antibodies will bind to flu virus antigens that they recognize, covering the virus so that its HA surface proteins can no longer bind to RBCs (Figure 2C).
The reaction between the antibody and the virus inhibits (i.e., prevents) hemagglutination from occurring, which results in hemagglutination inhibition (as shown in Figure 2C).
This is why the assay is called a "hemagglutination inhibition (HI) test." Hemagglutination (as depicted in Figure 2B) occurs when antibodies do not recognize and bind to the flu viruses in the solution, and as a result, the flu viruses bind to RBC, forming the lattice structure.
When the antibodies do recognize and bind to the influenza virus in the solution, this shows that the vaccine virus (like the one the ferret was infected with) is similar to the influenza virus obtained from the sick patient.
When this happens, the influenza virus being tested is said to be "antigenically similar" to the influenza virus that was used to create the antibodies (from the ferret).
When a circulating influenza virus is antigenically different from a vaccine, the antibodies developed in response to the vaccine virus may not recognize and bind this virus.
In the HI test, this will cause hemagglutination to occur (see Figure 2B).
Circulating influenza viruses tested via the HI test are typically obtained from respiratory samples collected from sick patients.
Assessing Antigenic Similarity Using the HI Test The HI test assesses the degree of antigenic similarity between two viruses using a scale based on antibody dilution.
As previously mentioned, the HI test is performed using a microtiter plate.
The microtiter plate contains rows and columns of wells (i.e., cups) where RBCs, flu virus and antibodies (developed against a comparison virus, such as a vaccine virus) are mixed.
Dilutions are marked across the top of the microtiter plate.
These dilutions function as a scale for assessing antigenic similarity and immune response.
By testing the ability of greater dilutions of antibody to prevent hemagglutination, scientists measure how well those antibodies recognize and bind to an flu virus.
The higher the dilution, the fewer antibodies are needed to block hemagglutination and the more antigenically similar the two viruses being compared are to each other.
The highest dilution of antibody that results in hemagglutination inhibition of the test virus is considered an HI titer (Figure 3).
HI Titer Assay This virus has an HI titer of 1280, which means that the greatest dilution of antibody that still blocked hemagglutination from occurring was at 1280 dilution.
At this dilution, the antibodies were still capable of recognizing and binding to the anti...
Show More Figure 4.
Antigenic Characterization Assay When CDC antigenically characterizes viruses to inform decisions on the formulation of the seasonal flu vaccine, the HI test is used to compare currently circulating viruses (rows B and C) with vaccine viruses (row A).
This allows scientists to quick...
Show More Public health experts consider influenza viruses to be antigenically similar or “like” each other if their HI titers differ by two dilutions or less.
(This is equivalent to a two-well (i.e., a four-fold dilution) or less difference).
Using Figure 4 as an example, when circulating virus 1 is compared to a vaccine virus, circulating virus 1 differs by one dilution (a 2-fold difference) and therefore is “like” the previous season’s vaccine virus.
However, circulating virus 2 differs by five dilutions (a 32-fold difference) and therefore is not “like” the previous season’s vaccine virus.
Circulating viruses that are antigenically dissimilar (i.e., not “like”) to vaccine virus are considered “low reactors.” Limitations Antigenic characterization gives important information about whether a vaccine made using a chosen vaccine virus will protect against circulating flu viruses, but there are several limitations to antigenic characterization test methodology, which are described below.
Neutralization Assay CDC also uses another assay for antigenic characterization called "high-content imaging-based neutralization test" (HINT).
This assay also tests whether antibodies in serum obtained after virus infection (humans or ferrets) can neutralize viruses obtained from sick patients.
In addition to the HI assay, HINT is used to measure how circulating flu A(H3N2) viruses are evolving to evade human immunity.
KEEP READING: CDC Study Describes New Lab Method to Test Flu A(H3N2) viruses, Has Potential to Improve Flu Vaccine Strain Selection Egg Adaptations Right now, most flu vaccines are made using viruses grown in chicken eggs.
When human viruses are grown in eggs, genetic changes can occur in the viruses.
These are called "egg-adapted" changes.
Some egg-adapted changes may change the virus' antigenic (or immunogenic) properties while others may not.
Egg-adapted changes have become a particular problem for selection of candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) for the influenz A(H3N2) virus component of flu vaccine made using egg-based production technology.
Influenza A(H3N2) viruses tend to grow less well in chicken eggs than other influenza viruses (e.g., influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus), and they also are more prone to egg-adapted changes.
Such changes can reduce the immune protection provided by the flu vaccine against circulating A(H3N2) viruses.
Time from Vaccine Virus Selection to Delivery of Vaccine Using current egg-based vaccine production technology, it takes about six months from the time that a vaccine virus is chosen (February for the Northern Hemisphere flu vaccine) to the time when flu vaccines become widely available.
Because influenza viruses are constantly changing, circulating influenza viruses may change during this six-month period.
If these genetic changes cause antigenic changes, it could mean that antibodies created through vaccination may not recognize and neutralize circulating influenza viruses.
New technologies that shorten the manufacturing time could reduce the chances of significant antigenic changes occurring in circulating viruses before flu vaccines become available each year.
Cell-Based Flu Vaccines Recombinant Influenza (Flu) Vaccine Use of Animals Use of the HI test or HINT to assess the similarity of circulating influenza viruses to vaccine viruses involves obtaining antibodies from animals (particularly ferrets).
Ferrets are often used as an animal model for influenza infection because they can be easily infected with human influenza viruses and experience similar signs and symptoms (e.g., fever, sneezing, loss of appetite, etc.).
Prior to infection, ferret serum is pre-screened to determine that it does not contain antibodies to circulating influenza viruses.
When ferrets are infected with influenza virus, they typically produce strong antibody responses against that particular virus.
Therefore, ferret antisera are commonly used to detect antigenic differences between influenza viruses.
However, there are differences between the immune responses of ferrets and humans which need to be considered when assessing the antigenic properties of influenza viruses.
KEEP READING: Human Serology & Flu ON THIS PAGE About The Hemagglutination Inhibition Assay (HI Test) Assessing Antigenic Similarity Using the HI Test Limitations RELATED PAGES Understanding Influenza Viruses How Flu Viruses Can Change: "Drift" and "Shift" Influenza Virus Genome Sequencing and Genetic Characterization Human Serology & Flu Information for Laboratories VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Influenza Virus Genome Sequencing and Genetic Characterization SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All Vaccine Effectiveness Public Health SEPT.
5, 2025 PURPOSE Vaccine effectiveness measures how well vaccination works under real-world conditions to protect people against health outcomes such as symptomatic illness, hospitalization, and death.
CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program protects public health through the data-driven science of conducting observational studies that provide timely evidence and inform policy recommendations to prevent illness, disability, and death from respiratory viruses.
CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program In collaboration with public health and academic partners, CDC conducts observational studies to evaluate the real-world effectiveness of FDA authorized and licensed COVID-19 vaccines.
Guiding principles for monitoring vaccine effectiveness Researchers use information collected through public health surveillance systems, electronic health records, and prospective studies.
CDC's COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program evaluates current COVID-19 vaccines by: Assessing real-world COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness in key populations and against key outcomes.
Providing timely data to evaluate effectiveness of new vaccine recommendations.
Detecting changes in COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness due to waning of vaccine-induced protection and emergence of new variants.
Monitoring populations at high risk for severe COVID-19.
Reviewing existing vaccine policy and informing new vaccine policy.
Communicating findings to policy makers, the scientific community, the public, and other stakeholders to increase vaccine confidence and uptake.
Types of vaccine effectiveness Vaccine effectiveness is generally measured by comparing the frequency of health outcomes in vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
Absolute vaccine effectiveness is when a study compares vaccinated people to unvaccinated people.
Relative vaccine effectiveness is when a study compares people who have received one vaccine type or vaccine schedule to those who received a different vaccine type or vaccine schedule.
Incremental vaccine effectiveness refers to measures that compare people who received more doses with those who received fewer doses.
Did you know?
More than 99% of adults and most children in the U.S.
have been vaccinated against COVID-19, been infected with SARS-CoV-2, or both.
CDC now measures incremental vaccine effectiveness— interpreted as added protection above baseline immunity.
This helps policymakers decide if people who have been vaccinated might benefit from an extra dose or other vaccine product.
Factors that can influence vaccine effectiveness Several factors influence vaccine effectiveness, including: Population-related factors, such as age, presence of underlying risk factors (e.g., diabetes, cancer, or pregnancy), and history of prior infection Pathogen-related factors, such as the virus variant(s) circulating Risk settings, such as residents of long-term care facilities or healthcare workers Vaccine factors, such as type of vaccine, vaccine dose, and time since vaccination Outcome factors, ranging from mild symptomatic infection to severe outcomes, like hospitalization and death Collecting information on these factors and adjusting for important epidemiologic confounders allows CDC to minimize bias in measuring vaccine effectiveness.
Vaccine effectiveness can differ by the type of vaccine product, total number of vaccine doses given, and time since the most recent vaccine dose was received.
Vaccine effectiveness might also differ in high-risk populations, such as older individuals or those with immunocompromising conditions.
To account for these differences, effectiveness estimates are often presented by: Age group Presence of immunocompromising conditions Populations at increased risk for severe COVID-19, such as long-term care facility residents Vaccine effectiveness informs vaccine policy Preventing severe COVID-19 is the priority of the U.S.
COVID-19 vaccination program.
The program monitors outcomes that are important to patients and that generate evidence relevant to COVID-19 vaccine policy including: Critical illness or death due to COVID-19 Hospitalization for COVID-19 Medically attended COVID-19 (e.g., urgent care and emergency department visits) Symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection CDC's vaccine effectiveness monitoring platforms serve as a pillar of the nation's early warning detection and response system for routine respiratory and other vaccine preventable disease threats which can easily overwhelm our healthcare systems.
Vaccine effectiveness evaluations Critical illness or death due to COVID-19, hospitalization for COVID-19, and medically attended COVID-19 Hospitalization, critical illness and death are widely recognized measures of severe COVID-19.
Prior CDC studies have shown that COVID-19 vaccines may provide lasting protection against critical illness or death due to COVID-19.
CDC works with partners to evaluate vaccine effectiveness in preventing hospitalizations, emergency department visits, and urgent care visits for COVID-19 using the VISION network.
This platform also collects information on the severity of COVID-19-associated hospitalizations and COVID-19-associated deaths.
VISION Outcome: COVID-19-associated emergency department and urgent care visits COVID-19-associated hospitalization Critical illness defined as COVID-19-associated intensive care unit admission or death Population: Individuals of all ages who have an emergency department, urgent care visit, or hospitalization with a COVID-19-like illness within the facility network Participating Sites: Columbia University (New York) HealthPartners (Minnesota and Wisconsin) Intermountain Healthcare (Utah) Kaiser Permanente Northern California (California) Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research (Oregon and Washington) Regenstrief Institute (Indiana) University of Colorado (Colorado) KEEP READING VISION Vaccine Effectiveness Network Symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection The primary goal of the COVID-19 vaccination program is to prevent severe illness and death.
However, monitoring effectiveness of vaccines against infection provided insights into the impact of vaccines against new variants and provided an early signal of waning immunity.
Studies monitoring vaccine effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection can be subject to bias due to changes in COVID-19 testing practices, including increased use of at-home testing, or different testing practices among vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.
CDC employed multiple study designs and various statistical methods to account for the influence of such factors when measuring vaccine effectiveness.
KEEP READING Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) - Reports by Topic ON THIS PAGE CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program Vaccine effectiveness evaluations RELATED PAGES Surveillance and Data Analytics Preliminary Estimates of COVID-19 Burden for 2024-2025 How CDC Estimates the Burden of COVID-19 in the US Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines VIEW ALL COVID-19 Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All COVID-19 Vaccination for Long-term Care Residents For Everyone JUNE 11, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW If you live or work in a long-term care (LTC) setting, you can help protect yourself and the people around you by getting your updated COVID-19 vaccine.
Vaccine recommendations CDC recommends an updated COVID-19 vaccine for most adults ages 18 years and older.
Parents of children ages 6 months to 17 years should discuss the benefits of vaccination with a healthcare provider.
Children ages 6 months–4 years may need more than 1 updated COVID-19 vaccine dose to be up to date.
CDC recommends an updated COVID-19 vaccine for most adults ages 18 years and older, including people who live and work in long-term care (LTC) settings, get 1 dose of an updated COVID-19 vaccine.
CDC recommends everyone ages 65 years and older, including people who live and work in LTC settings, get 2 doses of an updated COVID-19 vaccine 6 months apart.
People who are moderately or severely immunocompromised should get at least 2 doses of an updated COVID-19 vaccine 6 months apart.
They may also get more age-appropriate doses, beyond two doses at least 2 months apart, after talking to a healthcare provider.
People can self-confirm as moderately or severely immunocompromised.
This means they do NOT need documentation to receive a COVID-19 vaccination they are eligible for.
While it is the recommended to get updated COVID-19 vaccine doses 6 months apart, the minimum time is 2 months apart, which allows flexibility to get the second dose prior to typical COVID-19 surges, travel, life events, and healthcare visits.
Reminder People who live in LTC settings must give consent or agree to getting a COVID-19 vaccine.
Why the vaccine is important If you live or work in a long-term care (LTC) setting, you can help protect yourself and the people around you by getting your updated COVID-19 vaccine.
COVID-19 vaccines are the best way to protect yourself from serious illness, hospitalization, and death caused by COVID-19.
Older adults and people with certain health conditions are more likely to get very sick from COVID-19.
COVID-19 vaccines can help keep you from getting seriously ill if you do get COVID-19.
If your loved one is not able to ask questions or otherwise communicate with the LTC staff, here’s what to know about consent for getting a COVID-19 vaccine: Consent or assent for a COVID-19 vaccine is given by LTC residents (or people appointed to make medical decisions on their behalf, called a medical proxy) and documented in their charts per the provider’s standard practice.
Residents who receive a COVID-19 vaccine (or their medical proxy) also receive a fact sheet before vaccination.
The fact sheet explains the risks and benefits of COVID-19 vaccination.
Some COVID-19 vaccination providers may require written, email, or verbal consent from recipients before getting vaccinated.
This is at the provider’s discretion; written consent is not required by federal law for COVID-19 vaccination in the United States.
KEEP READING Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines How to get a COVID-19 vaccine To make a COVID-19 vaccine appointment for you or your family member: Talk with the LTC staff about getting vaccinated on site.
Ask a family member or friend to help you schedule a vaccination appointment if you can’t get vaccinated on site.
If you have additional questions about how to get a COVID-19 vaccine, talk with your healthcare provider.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS Infection Control Guidance: SARS-CoV-2 ON THIS PAGE Vaccine recommendations Why the vaccine is important How to get a COVID-19 vaccine RELATED PAGES COVID-19 Vaccines Vaccines for Moderately to Severely Immunocompromised People Getting Your Vaccine COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness Vaccines for People Who Would Like to Have a Baby Vaccines for Women Who Are Pregnant or Breastfeeding VIEW ALL COVID-19 Vaccines for Women Who Are Pregnant or Breastfeeding SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Interactive Dashboard Participating Labs VIEW ALL View All The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) JUNE 18, 2025 AT A GLANCE The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) is a laboratory-based system that monitors respiratory and enteric virus activity.
Overview The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) monitors viral activity in the United States.
In this surveillance system, participating U.S.
laboratories voluntarily report weekly to CDC the total number of tests performed to detect these viruses and the total number of those tests that were positive.
They also report the specimen type, collection location, and week of collection.
NREVSS allows for timely analysis of data to monitor viral seasons and circulation patterns.
All data graphs on this site are updated weekly.
NREVSS Dashboard Select a View Information can be viewed as national data (all participating NREVSS laboratories) or filtered by HHS region, surveillance year, or virus.
To view respiratory or enteric virus data, select the respective view.
Select Virus Select one or more viruses.
How it's used NREVSS was created in the 1980s to monitor seasonal trends in respiratory virus activity and was later expanded to include select enteric viruses.
Influenza testing data reported to NREVSS is integrated with CDC Influenza Surveillance.
Each week, participating U.S.
laboratories from university and community hospitals, state and county public health departments, and commercial entities voluntarily report: the total number of tests performed the test type used for detection the number of those tests with positive results Respiratory test results on the dashboard only include results from nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs), also referred to as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests.
CDC makes NREVSS data available through this website.
CDC also publishes periodic summaries and alerts based on NREVSS data in CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report and other peer-reviewed journals.
NREVSS plays an important role in describing the temporal and geographic circulation patterns of respiratory and enteric viruses—including monitoring changes in the typical annual circulation patterns and identifying viral outbreaks.
NREVSS is a relatively simple and practical surveillance system, gathering vital information that informs CDC's activities that treat, prevent, and control respiratory and enteric viral diseases.
Viruses monitored in NREVSS and key surveillance reports The following viruses are monitored by NREVSS.
Additionally, you may find key surveillance reports by virus.
Virus Key Surveillance Report SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 12 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) 3456 Influenza viruses FluView Interactive Human parainfluenza viruses (PIV) (types 1, 2, 3, and 4) 78910 Human metapneumovirus (HMPV) 1112 Rhinovirus/enterovirus (RV/EV) 13 Respiratory adenoviruses 14 Human coronaviruses (HCOV) (types 299E, NL63, OC43, HKU1) 151617 Rotavirus 1819 Norovirus N/A ON THIS PAGE Overview NREVSS Dashboard How it's used Viruses monitored in NREVSS and key surveillance reports SOURCES PRINT SHARE NREVSS The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) is a laboratory-based system that monitors respiratory and enteric virus activity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All COVID-19 Vaccination for Women Who Are Pregnant or Breastfeeding For Everyone SEPT.
10, 2024 ESPAÑOL COVID-19 VACCINE RECOMMENDATIONS COVID-19 vaccine recommendations have recently been updated for some populations.
This page will be updated to align with the updated immunization schedule.
Learn more.
WHAT TO KNOW Everyone ages 6 months and older is recommended to get the updated COVID-19 vaccine, including if you are pregnant, breastfeeding a baby, trying to get pregnant now, or might become pregnant in the future.
COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy is safe and effective.
COVID-19 vaccines are not associated with fertility problems in women or men.
Infants ages 6 months and older are recommended to get the updated COVID-19 vaccine even if born to mothers who were vaccinated or had COVID-19 before or during pregnancy.
If you are pregnant or were recently pregnant, you are more likely to get very sick from COVID-19, compared to those who are not pregnant.
Additionally, if you have COVID-19 during pregnancy, you are at increased risk of complications that can affect your pregnancy and your baby from serious illness from COVID-19.
Recommendations during and after pregnancy If you are pregnant or were recently pregnant, you are: More likely to get very sick from COVID-19 compared to those who are not pregnant.
More likely to need hospitalization, intensive care, or the use of a ventilator or special equipment to breathe if you do get sick from COVID-19.
Severe COVID-19 illness can lead to death.
At increased risk of complications that can affect your pregnancy and baby including, preterm birth or stillbirth.
COVID-19 vaccination remains the best protection against COVID-19-related hospitalization and death for you and your baby.
CDC recommendations align with those from professional medical organizations including the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Society for Maternal Fetal Medicine, and American Society for Reproductive Medicine .
Pregnant and have questions about COVID-19 vaccine?
If you would like to speak to someone about the COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy, you can talk to your healthcare provider.
You can also contact MotherToBaby, whose experts can answer questions in English or Spanish.
This service is free and confidential.
To reach MotherToBaby: ● Call: 1-866-626-6847 ● Text: 1-855-999-3525 (standard messaging rates may apply) Safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy Studies including hundreds of thousands of people around the world show that COVID-19 vaccination before and during pregnancy is safe, effective, and beneficial to both the pregnant woman and the baby.
The benefits of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine outweigh any potential risks of vaccination during pregnancy.
Data show: COVID-19 vaccines do not cause COVID-19, including in pregnant women or their babies.
None of the COVID-19 vaccines contain live virus.
They cannot make anyone sick with COVID-19, including pregnant women or their babies.
Learn more about how vaccines work.
It is safe to receive an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech), before and during pregnancy.
Both vaccines show no increased risk for complications like miscarriage, preterm delivery, stillbirth, or birth defects12.
mRNA COVID-19 vaccines during pregnancy are effective.
They reduce the risk of severe illness and other health effects from COVID-19.
COVID-19 vaccination might help prevent stillbirths and preterm delivery1234.
COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy builds antibodies that can help protect the baby.45 Receiving mRNA COVID-19 vaccines during pregnancy can help protect babies younger than age 6 months from hospitalization due to COVID-19.
678 Most babies hospitalized with COVID-19 were born to pregnant women who were not vaccinated during pregnancy678.
Recommendations if you are breastfeeding CDC recommends that women who are breastfeeding a baby, and infants 6 months of age and older, get vaccinated and stay up to date with their COVID-19 vaccines.
Vaccines are safe and effective at preventing COVID-19 in women who are breastfeeding a baby.
Available data on the safety of COVID-19 vaccination while breastfeeding indicate no severe reactions after vaccination in the breastfeeding mother or the breastfed child.9 There has been no evidence to suggest that COVID-19 vaccines are harmful to either women who have received a vaccine and are breastfeeding or to their babies.10 Studies have shown that mothers who are breastfeeding a baby and have received mRNA COVID-19 vaccines have antibodies in their breast milk, which could help protect their babies.910 CDC also recommends COVID-19 vaccines for children aged 6 months and older.
Possible side effects Pregnant women have not reported different side effects from women who are not pregnant after vaccination with mRNA COVID-19 vaccines (Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines)12.
Fever during pregnancy, for any reason, has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes.
Fever in pregnancy may be treated with acetaminophen as needed, in moderation, and in consultation with a healthcare provider.
Learn more about possible side effects and rare severe allergic reactions after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine.
Recommendations if you would like to have a baby in the future CDC recommends that women who are trying to get pregnant now or might become pregnant in the future, as well as their partners, stay up to date and get the updated COVID-19 vaccine.
COVID-19 vaccines are not associated with fertility problems in women or men.
Common questions Expand All What are the long-term effects on the baby if I get a COVID-19 vaccine during pregnancy?
When should I get the updated COVID-19 vaccine during pregnancy?
Which COVID-19 vaccine should I receive if I am pregnant?
Can I get a COVID-19 vaccine at the same time as other vaccines?
Resources For Healthcare and Public Health Considerations for the Use of COVID-19 Vaccines in the United States Management of Anaphylaxis after COVID-19 Vaccination COVID-19 Clinical and Professional Resources Clinic Poster: Protect yourself and your baby from COVID-19 ON THIS PAGE Recommendations during and after pregnancy Safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy Recommendations if you are breastfeeding Possible side effects Recommendations if you would like to have a baby in the future Common questions Resources RELATED PAGES COVID-19 Vaccines Vaccines for Moderately to Severely Immunocompromised People Getting Your Vaccine COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness Vaccines for People Who Would Like to Have a Baby Vaccines for Long-term Care Residents VIEW ALL COVID-19 Testing SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All How Flu Viruses Can Change: "Drift" and "Shift" Public Health SEPT.
17, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Influenza (flu) viruses are constantly changing.
They can change in two different ways.
Antigenic Drift One way flu viruses change is called "antigenic drift." Drift consists of small changes (or mutations) in the genes of influenza viruses that can lead to changes in the surface proteins of the virus, HA (hemagglutinin) and NA (neuraminidase).
The HA and NA surface proteins of influenza viruses are "antigens," which means they are recognized by the immune system and are capable of triggering an immune response, including production of antibodies that can fight infection.
The changes associated with antigenic drift happen continually over time as flu viruses replicate (i.e., infect a host and make copies of themselves).
Flu vaccines are designed to target one or more of the surface proteins/antigens of flu viruses.
For example, egg-based, cell-based, and live attenuated influenza vaccines (nasal spray) flu vaccines all target the HA and NA of the flu viruses they are formulated to protect against.
The recombinant flu vaccine only targets the HA of the flu viruses it is formulated to protect against.
The small genetic changes that occur in influenza viruses over time usually produce viruses that are closely related to one another, which can be illustrated by their location close together on a phylogenetic tree.
Flu viruses that are closely related to each other usually have similar antigenic properties.
This means that antibodies your immune system creates against one flu virus will likely recognize and respond to antigenically similar flu viruses (this is called "cross-protection").
However, the small changes in HA and NA that accumulate over time may result in viruses that are antigenically different, meaning a person's antibodies bind differently or not at all to the virus, resulting in a loss or reduction in protection against that particular flu virus.
It also is possible for a single change in a particularly important location on the HA to result in a flu virus becoming antigenically different.
When a flu virus has become antigenically different (or "antigenically drifted"), this generally means that the virus' antigenic properties are different enough that the body's immune system (i.e., a person's existing antibodies) will have a harder time recognizing and fighting against the virus.
The extent to which a person's immune protection is reduced against an antigenically drifted flu virus can vary, in part because different people may have different levels of pre-existing immunity against that flu virus.
Antigenic drift can sometimes result in a person becoming susceptible to flu virus infection again, as antigenic drift has changed the virus' antigenic properties enough that a person's existing antibodies won't effectively recognize and neutralize the antigenically different flu viruses.
Antigenic drift is an important reason why people can get flu multiple times over the course of their lives.
Antigenic drift is also a primary reason why the composition of flu vaccines for use in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres is reviewed annually and updated as needed to keep up with evolving flu viruses.
Antigenic Shift Another type of change is called "antigenic shift." Shift is an abrupt, major change in a flu A virus, resulting in new HA and/or new HA and NA proteins in flu viruses that infect humans.
Antigenic shift can result in a new flu A subtype infecting people for the first time.
Shift can happen if a flu virus from an animal population gains the ability to infect humans.
Such animal-origin viruses can contain HA or HA/NA combinations that are different enough from human viruses that most people do not have immunity to the new (or "novel") virus.
Such a "shift" occurred in the spring of 2009, when an H1N1 virus with genes from viruses originating from North American swine, Eurasian swine, humans and birds emerged to infect people and quickly spread, causing a pandemic.
When shift happens, most people have little or no immunity against the new virus.
While flu viruses evolve genetically all the time and often undergo antigenic drift, antigenic shift happens infrequently.
Flu pandemics occur rarely; there have been four flu pandemics in the past 100 years.
FOR EVERYONE Pandemic Flu ON THIS PAGE Antigenic Drift Antigenic Shift RELATED PAGES Understanding Influenza Viruses Antigenic Characterization Influenza Virus Genome Sequencing and Genetic Characterization Human Serology & Flu Information for Laboratories VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Antigenic Characterization SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All OCTOBER 28, 2024 How CDC Estimates the Burden of COVID-19 in the US WHAT TO KNOW CDC uses statistical and mathematical modeling to estimate the burden of COVID-19-associated illnesses, outpatient visits, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States.
A multiplier model approach to disease burden estimation, similar to that used to estimate the burden of influenza, is used to estimate the burden of COVID-19.
Overall, COVID-19 continues to affect the health of people and healthcare systems in the United States.
Overview Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the burden of COVID-19-associated illnesses, outpatient visits, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States has varied.
The public health burden of COVID-19 is influenced by numerous factors, including: the characteristics of circulating variants of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes COVID-19.
population immunity to circulating variants from both prior infection and vaccination.
access to and utilization of medical care, including antiviral medication.
COVID-19 is no longer a nationally notifiable disease, meaning COVID-19 cases are no longer reported to CDC.
Therefore, CDC uses statistical and mathematical modeling to estimate the weekly cumulative burden of COVID-19-associated illnesses, outpatient visits, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States.
Preliminary estimates of the burden of COVID-19 are based on weekly reported hospitalizations with laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infections for the time period of reference.
Estimates of the cumulative burden since October 1 of the current year begin once sufficient data are available for producing stable estimates with updates occurring weekly through September 30 of the following year.
The methods used to estimate preliminary COVID-19 burden estimates are similar to the approach used to estimate the preliminary burden of influenza estimates12345.
Differences between the COVID-19 and influenza modeling approaches include the model inputs, the modeling assumptions, the analytic age groups used, and how uncertainty is estimated and incorporated into the model.
More details about the methods used to estimate the weekly hospitalization burden of COVID-19 can be found in a recent publication.6 How CDC estimates the cumulative burden of COVID-19 Hospitalizations Laboratory-confirmed COVID-19-associated hospitalization rates are obtained from the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)-Associated Hospitalization Surveillance Network (COVID-NET).
COVID-NET is a collaboration between CDC, the Emerging Infections Program network, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists, and selected state and local health departments in the United States that conduct population-based surveillance.
COVID-NET data come from hospitals that serve approximately 10% of the U.S.
population.
To estimate national COVID-19–associated hospital admissions from COVID-NET data, CDC used a hierarchical Bayesian modeling approach, namely, the Conditionally Autoregressive–Random Effects (CAR-RE) model.
6The CAR-RE model accounts for dependencies across weeks in COVID-NET reported hospitalizations via conditionally autoregressive (CAR) and site-level random effects (RE) to reflect unmeasured differences among participating COVID-NET sites.
Additionally, the CAR-RE model approach enables estimation of the uncertainty in the derived national hospitalization counts due to extrapolation from the areas covered by COVID-NET surveillance to the entire US population.
Modeled hospitalization counts are adjusted to reflect under-detection using both the estimated probability that an inpatient is tested for SAR-CoV-2 infection and the expected sensitivity of the utilized tests.
Testing is subject to provider discretion, facility policy, and test availability.
The data on testing can lag, so testing data from recent prior years are applied to the current season estimates.
The adjusted COVID-19–associated hospitalization estimates are then used to estimate additional measures of COVID-19–associated burden including illnesses, outpatient visits, and deaths via a probabilistic mathematical multiplier model using Monte Carlo simulations.
How CDC estimates COVID-19 outpatient visits and illnesses in the United States With the estimated national-level counts of age-specific COVID-19-associated hospitalizations, the number of outpatient visits and illnesses are estimated through age-specific ratios.
A range of ratios were extracted from published literature since January 2022, ongoing studies, and input from subject matter experts to generate a range of age group-specific ratios for these estimates.
These ratios included the number of outpatient visits due to COVID-19 per COVID-19-associated hospitalizations and the number of COVID-19 illnesses per COVID-19 outpatient visit.
Ratio ranges of hospitalizations to symptomatic illnesses, outpatient visits, and deaths were estimated using statistical models.
These outcome-specific ratio ranges are applied to the estimated number of hospitalizations to generate a range for the number of illnesses, outpatient visits, and deaths.
All outcomes (illnesses, outpatient visits, hospitalizations, and deaths) were combined to derive the total estimated burden range.
How CDC estimates COVID-19-Associated Deaths in the United States It has been recognized that COVID-19 is underreported on death certificates.
7COVID-19 may lead to death from other causes that are secondary complications of COVID-19, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, pulmonary embolus, or bacterial pneumonias; these COVID-19 associated deaths may be attributed to these other causes on death certificates.
Additional reasons for underreporting may be that patients aren't always tested for COVID-19, particularly older adults who are at greatest risk of COVID-19 complications and death, and not all deaths related to COVID-19 occur in the hospital.
Because there is underreporting on death certificates, only counting deaths where COVID-19 was recorded on a death certificate would greatly underestimate COVID-19's true impact.
Modeling strategies are therefore commonly used to estimate total COVID-19 associated deaths.
The methods used to estimate the number of COVID-19 associated deaths were adapted from similar methods used for estimating influenza deaths.12345 In-hospital deaths among those hospitalized with laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and observed in COVID-NET were adjusted for under-detection of COVID-19.
Adjustments were based on the frequency and sensitivity of SARS-CoV-2 testing among those who died in the hospital with pneumonia, influenza, and/or COVID-19–like illnesses.
In addition, death certificate data were used to estimate how likely COVID-19–associated deaths were to occur outside the hospital.
Death certificates that have pneumonia, influenza, or COVID-19 causes (P&I), other respiratory and circulatory causes (R&C), or other non-respiratory, non-circulatory (non-R&C) causes of death were examined.
The proportion of these deaths that occurred while in the hospital was then estimated using data provided by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS).
Information on the causes of death from COVID-NET was used to determine the mixture of P&I, R&C, and other coded deaths to include in the investigation of death certificate data.
Finally, once the proportion of COVID-19–associated deaths that occurred outside of the hospital was estimated, the death-to-hospitalization ratio was estimated.
Data needed to estimate COVID-19–associated deaths may lag for up to two years.
When death certificate data were not available for the year being estimated, adjusted values based on data observed in prior years were used and estimates updated when more current data became available.
US COVID-Net Hospitalization Estimates Limitations of COVID-19 Burden Estimates These estimates are subject to multiple limitations.
Rates of COVID-19–associated hospitalizations are based on data reported to COVID-NET that are current as of the time estimates are made.
Weekly case counts may differ as data are updated by COVID-NET sites.
8The most updated unadjusted rates of hospitalization for COVID-NET sites are available on COVID-NET Interactive.
National rates of COVID-19–associated hospitalizations and in-hospital deaths are adjusted for the frequency of SARS-CoV-2 testing and the sensitivity of SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic assays, using a multiplier approach.
However, data on testing practices during the current year may not be available at the time of estimation.
In such cases, rates are adjusted using data from prior years.
Burden estimates from a given year are updated at a later date when data on contemporary testing practices become available.
Estimates of COVID-19–associated illnesses are made by multiplying the number of outpatient visits by the ratio of illnesses to outpatient visits.
The estimates of COVID-19–associated outpatient visits are made by multiplying the number of hospitalizations by the ratio of hospitalizations to outpatient visits.
These ratios are based on published literature, ongoing studies, and expert review and input.
Substantial limitations in the published literature for age-specific estimates heighten the uncertainty of the ratios.
In addition, estimates may not be accurate if circulating variants cause more or less severe illness, or if patterns of care-seeking change.
Estimates of COVID-19–associated deaths rely on information about location of death from death certificates.
However, death certificate data for a given year may not be available at the time of estimation.
When this occurs, death certificate data from prior years where these data are available from the National Center for Health Statistics are used.
Specifically, the model uses the frequency of COVID-19-associated deaths that have cause of death related to pneumonia or influenza (P&I), other respiratory or cardiovascular (other R&C), or other non-respiratory, non-cardiovascular (non-R&C) to account for deaths occurring outside of a hospital by cause of death.
If these frequencies are not available from a given year at the time of estimation, the frequencies of each cause of death from the most recent year of data available are used.
ON THIS PAGE Overview How CDC estimates the cumulative burden of COVID-19 How CDC estimates COVID-19 outpatient visits and illnesses in the United States How CDC estimates COVID-19-Associated Deaths in the United States Limitations of COVID-19 Burden Estimates SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Surveillance of Human Adenovirus Types and the Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Reporting — United States, 2017–2023 Weekly / December 19, 2024 / 73(50);1136–1141 Print Fatima Abdirizak, MPH1; Amber K.
Winn, MPH1; Rishika Parikh, MPH1; Heather M.
Scobie, PhD1; Xiaoyan Lu, MS1; Everardo Vega, PhD1; Olivia Almendares, MSPH1; Hannah L.
Kirking, MD1; Erica Billig Rose, PhD1; Benjamin J.
Silk, PhD1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) cause a wide spectrum of respiratory and nonrespiratory illnesses and are associated with outbreaks in congregate settings.
The National Adenovirus Type Reporting System (NATRS) was formally initiated in 2014, but has conducted passive, voluntary surveillance of circulating HAdV types in the United States since 2003.
What is added by this report?
Reporting to NATRS decreased during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, despite continued HAdV circulation reported through passive laboratory surveillance to the National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System.
During 2017–2023, six HAdV types (1–4, 7, and 14) accounted for 88.3% of typed specimens; 17.0% of specimens were identified as outbreak-related.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Strengthened public health and clinical laboratory capacity to type and report HAdV-positive specimens is needed to improve understanding of HAdV type circulation patterns, which can guide outbreak investigations and support development of diagnostic tests, therapeutics, and vaccines.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (8) Blogs (1) Facebook (1) Bluesky (1) Mendeley (7) 4 4 Total citations 4 Recent citations n/a Field Citation Ratio n/a Relative Citation Ratio Figures Figure 1 Figure 2 Table Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF Abstract Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) are typically associated with mild respiratory illnesses, although severe disease and outbreaks in congregate settings occur.
The National Adenovirus Type Reporting System (NATRS) is a passive, laboratory-based surveillance system that monitors trends in circulation of HAdV types in the United States.
This report summarizes the distribution of HAdV types reported to NATRS during 2017–2023.
During this 7-year period, 2,241 HAdV specimens with typing results were reported to NATRS.
The number of specimens with HAdV typing results reported varied annually during 2017–2019 (range = 389–562) and declined during 2020–2023 (range = 58–356).
During 2017–2023, six HAdV types (1–4, 7, and 14) accounted for 88.3% of typed specimens reported; 17.0% of specimens were identified as outbreak-related.
An increase in type 41 reporting was associated with a hepatitis cluster during 2021–2022.
Reporting to NATRS has declined since the COVID-19 pandemic, despite continued HAdV circulation reported through passive laboratory surveillance to the National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System.
Enhanced participation in NATRS is needed to improve monitoring of circulating HAdV types.
Top Introduction Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) are classified into seven species (designated A–G) and approximately 100 types (designated with integers) (1).
HAdV types are associated with various respiratory illnesses as well as nonrespiratory illnesses including gastroenteritis and conjunctivitis (1).
HAdV types are sometimes associated with differing degrees of illness severity, although how HAdV type and host factors interact and result in a clinical syndrome is not fully understood.
Most HAdV infections are mild or asymptomatic.
However, severe illness can occur, either sporadically in otherwise healthy persons or, more frequently, in persons with immunocompromising conditions (1).
Outbreaks of HAdV have been described in congregate settings including college campuses, hospitals, and military training sites (1–4).
An HAdV vaccine against types 4 and 7 is only available for military personnel*; these types have caused outbreaks of severe respiratory illness.
This report summarizes HAdV typing data reported during 2017–2023 to the National Adenovirus Type Reporting System (NATRS),† a passive, laboratory-based surveillance system that monitors HAdV types across the United States.
Top Methods Data Sources Participating laboratories with HAdV typing results voluntarily report quarterly to NATRS.
Results are accompanied by limited demographic, clinical, and laboratory data, and indication of whether the specimen was associated with an outbreak or cluster.
Additional outbreak-related specimens are identified through manual review and follow-up communications with public health officials.
Laboratory testing for HAdVs is performed by molecular assay, antigen detection, or virus isolation.
The HAdV target is included in many commercially available polymerase chain reaction (PCR) panels for respiratory pathogens.
Because HAdV testing and typing do not typically influence clinical management of patients with HAdV infections, diagnostic HAdV testing is not routine and few laboratories routinely perform HAdV typing.§ However, during public health investigations, such as those related to outbreaks, laboratory specimens are more likely to be sent for HAdV testing and typing to help characterize illnesses, determine the scope of the outbreak, and design interventions.
Thus, outbreak specimens might be more likely to be reported to NATRS.¶ Data Analysis This report describes the distribution of HAdV results reported to NATRS during 2017–2023 by patients’ state of residence and age group.
In addition, the distribution of typing results by specimen type and year of specimen collection were examined, and the HAdV types associated with outbreaks during the study period were identified.
Reports with missing HAdV typing data, missing date of collection, and known instances in which multiple specimens of the same HAdV type were collected from the same patient within 90 days were excluded.
This activity was reviewed by CDC, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.** Top Results Reports Submitted to NATRS Six laboratories reported results to NATRS for 2,909 specimens collected during 2017–2023, including CDC’s Respiratory Virus Diagnostics Laboratory, four state public health laboratories, and one U.S.
Department of Defense laboratory.
Specimens originated from patients living in 30 states (Figure 1).
After exclusion of reports with missing HAdV typing data (381) or date of collection (274) and multiple specimens of the same HAdV type from the same patient (13),†† a total of 2,241 typing results were included in the analysis (Supplementary Table, 
Respiratory specimens accounted for the largest percentage of specimens (82.3%); the second largest group included stool specimens, which accounted for 6.4% of all specimens (Table).
However, annual reports declined during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 (58 specimens) and 2021 (103).
In 2022 and 2023, a total of 356 and 273 reports, respectively, were received, lower than the average annual mean of 484 reported during 2017–2019 (Figure 2).
Throughout the study period, specimens with typing results reported to NATRS were most frequently collected from infants and young children aged 0–4 years (1,009; 45.0%), young adults aged 18–29 years (616; 27.5%), and children and adolescents aged 5–17 years (359; 16.0%).
Typed specimens collected from adults aged ≥30 years were infrequent (95; 4.2%); patient age was missing for 162 (7.2%) specimens.
During 2017–2023, six HAdV types accounted for 88.3% of all reported data: 530 (23.7%) type 3; 411 (18.3%) type 4; 311 (13.9%) type 2; 300 (13.4%) type 7; 254 (11.3%) type 1; and 174 (7.8%) type 14.
The annual distribution of HAdV types varied (Figure 2).
During 2017–2019, types 4 (22.3%), 3 (20.6%), and 7 (19.9%) were the most frequently reported; however, during 2020–2022, types 2 (27.1%), 1 (20.7%), 41 (15.3%), and 4 (14.9%) were most frequently reported.
In 2023, types 3 (68.9%) and 2 (11.0%) predominated.
Among all 2,241 specimens reported during 2017–2023, a total of 381 (17.0%) were identified as outbreak-related (Table).
Among 1,451 typed specimens reported during 2017–2019, a total of 267 (18.4%) were outbreak-related.
Among these, the most frequent outbreak-related types were 7 (32.2%), 4 (29.2%), and 14 (27.0%).
During 2020–2021, among 161 specimens, 17 (10.6%) were related to an outbreak, including a nationwide investigation into pediatric hepatitis suspected to be associated with type 41 adenovirus infection.¶¶ Among these specimens, 11 (64.7%) were type 41.
In 2022, among 356 specimens reported, 97 (27.2%) were outbreak-related; most were types 4 (65.0%) and 41 (26.8%).
No outbreak-related specimens were identified in 2023.
Top Discussion HAdV type surveillance is useful for monitoring circulation patterns over time, guiding outbreak investigations, and supporting development of diagnostic tests, therapeutics, and vaccines.
During 2017–2023, the most frequently reported HAdV types (1–4, 7, and 14) accounted for 88% of NATRS specimens.
Similarly, a previous NATRS report found that these same six types accounted for 86% of specimens reported in the United States during 2003–2016 (5).
These surveillance findings suggest that vaccines and therapeutics with coverage of certain HAdV types could help mitigate community and outbreak-related illness.
Because HAdV typing does not typically influence clinical management, a substantial proportion (17%) of typing results reported to NATRS were identified as being associated with an outbreak or other epidemiologic investigation.
During 2021–2022, type 41 was more frequently reported, largely because of the enhanced investigations of HAdV-associated acute pediatric hepatitis (6,7).
Outbreaks in congregate settings such as colleges, health care facilities, and military environments, particularly those involving HAdV types 4 and 7, influenced the observed trends in HAdV type distribution during the study period.
In 2017, an outbreak associated with HAdV type 7 occurred among unvaccinated military trainees in Virginia (2), and in 2019, an outbreak associated with type 4 occurred at a military training academy in Connecticut (4).
During 2018–2022, types 4 and 7 were linked to multiple college outbreaks across several states (3,8,9).
NATRS reporting has declined substantially since the COVID-19 pandemic.
Implementation of nonpharmaceutical interventions in response to the pandemic in 2020 disrupted the circulation of most respiratory viruses (10).
As a result, respiratory HAdV circulation reported to the National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS), a passive, laboratory-based surveillance network, initially decreased that year.
However, by spring 2021, HAdV circulation reported to NREVSS had returned to typical prepandemic levels, with elevated activity observed in fall 2022 followed by a return to typical prepandemic circulation by fall 2023.*** Thus, the decline in NATRS participation during the pandemic is most likely related to reduced HAdV typing or reporting of HAdV types rather than to diminished HAdV activity.
Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least four limitations.
First, a limited number of laboratories have HAdV typing capacity; thus, data reported to NATRS are not geographically representative of HAdV circulation.
Second, reports with missing typing or date of collection data were excluded, further limiting the representativeness of the data.
Third, data reported to NATRS do not include detailed epidemiologic or clinical information; therefore, HAdV types could not be associated with specific clinical syndromes or outcomes.
Finally, HAdV typing is differentially performed on specimens from severe infections and outbreaks; therefore, NATRS results are unlikely to represent the full distribution of HAdV types circulating in the community.
Implications for Public Health Practice NATRS is designed for national tracking of circulating HAdV types.
However, reporting has declined since public health resources were diverted to the COVID-19 pandemic.
To enhance national surveillance and geographic representativeness, laboratories are encouraged to perform typing or refer positive specimens for typing and report their results to NATRS.††† Increasing routine typing of HAdV from both community and outbreak sources is essential for detecting outbreaks locally as well as understanding differences in circulating genotypes and changes in epidemiology and clinical severity.
The expanded application of pathogen genomics (i.e., whole genome sequencing) and associated resources since the pandemic can be further leveraged to improve HAdV type surveillance.
Expanded laboratory capacity to type HAdVs and enhanced reporting could improve national understanding of HAdV circulation patterns and better guide public health prevention strategies.
Top Acknowledgments State and local public health laboratory and program personnel who have contributed to the National Adenovirus Type Reporting System and the Naval Health Research Center.
Top Corresponding author: Benjamin J.
Silk, bsilk@cdc.gov.
Top 1Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top *  †  § Type identification of HAdV-positive specimens requires additional testing.
Because relatively few clinical or public health laboratories currently perform HAdV typing, those with typing capacity (including the CDC diagnostic laboratory) have provided technical assistance during epidemiologic investigations or outbreaks.
¶ Laboratory guidance and resources for adenovirus typing are provided by CDC and the Association of Public Health Laboratories.
  ** 45 C.F.R.
part 46, 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
†† No cases of the same HAdV type from the same patient but from different sources were found.
§§ During the 7-year study period, molecular typing methods, including partial or full genome sequencing (1,327; 59.2%) and type-specific real-time PCR (756; 33.7%), were predominantly used for HAdV typing.
The traditional serum neutralization test was used infrequently (103; 4.6%).
¶¶ The HAdV type 41 cases were not associated with a single outbreak but were part of a nationwide epidemiologic investigation during 2021–2022 that resulted in increased reporting of acute hepatitis associated with HAdV infection among children.
*** NREVSS collects the aggregate weekly number of tests performed and the total number of those tests that were positive from participating U.S.
laboratories (
Among 1,799,424 HAdV tests reported to NREVSS during 2017–2019, there were 54,782 HAdV detections; among 2,908,127 HAdV tests reported during 2021–2023, a total of 120,928 HAdV detections were reported.
NREVSS does not collect data on HAdV type.
††† Laboratories with HAdV typing results can report data to NATRS at natrs@cdc.gov.
Top References Lynch JP 3rd, Kajon AE.
Adenovirus: epidemiology, global spread of novel types, and approach to treatment.
Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2021;42:800–21.
 PMID:34918322 Bautista-Gogel J, Madsen CM, Lu X, et al.
Outbreak of respiratory illness associated with human adenovirus type 7 among persons attending Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia, 2017.
J Infect Dis 2020;221:697–700.
 PMID:30783668 Kujawski SA, Lu X, Schneider E, et al.
Outbreaks of adenovirus-associated respiratory illness on 5 college campuses in the United States, 2018–2019.
Clin Infect Dis 2021;72:1992–9.
 PMID:32322889 Chu VT, Simon E, Lu X, et al.
Outbreak of acute respiratory illness associated with human adenovirus type 4 at the United States Coast Guard Academy, 2019.
J Infect Dis 2022;225:55–64.
 PMID:34139752 Binder AM, Biggs HM, Haynes AK, et al.
Human adenovirus surveillance—United States, 2003–2016.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:1039–42.
 PMID:28981484 Baker JM, Buchfellner M, Britt W, et al.
Acute hepatitis and adenovirus infection among children—Alabama, October 2021–February 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:638–40.
 PMID:35511732 World Health Organization.
Disease outbreak news: acute hepatitis of unknown aetiology in children—multi-country.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2022.
 Montgomery JP, Marquez JL, Nord J, et al.
Detection of a human adenovirus outbreak, including some critical infections, using multipathogen testing at a large university, September 2022–January 2023.
Open Forum Infect Dis 2024;11:ofae192.
 PMID:38680614 Tori ME, Chontos-Komorowski J, Stacy J, et al.
Identification of large adenovirus infection outbreak at university by multipathogen testing, South Carolina, USA, 2022.
Emerg Infect Dis 2024;30:358–62.
 PMID:38270142 Olsen SJ, Winn AK, Budd AP, et al.
Changes in influenza and other respiratory virus activity during the COVID-19 pandemic—United States, 2020–2021.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2021;70:1013–9.
 PMID:34292924 Top FIGURE 1.
Geographic distribution of cases with human adenovirus typing data, by patient state of residence and reporting laboratory — National Adenovirus Type Reporting System, United States, 2017–2023*,† Abbreviations: HAdV = human adenovirus; HHS = U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services; NATRS = National Adenovirus Type Reporting System.
* Typing results were reported to NATRS from the California Department of Public Health Laboratory (2017–2023); Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Diagnostic Laboratory, CDC (2017–2019 and 2021–2022); Bureau of Public Health Laboratories, Florida Department of Health (2017–2023); Public Health Laboratory, Minnesota Department of Health (2017–2023); Naval Health Research Center (2017–2019); and Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health (2017–2019 and 2021–2023).
† Although the laboratories participating in NATRS are physically located in HHS Regions 2 (New York), 4 (Georgia and Florida), 5 (Minnesota), and 9 (California) only, specimens originated from patients living in 30 states and all 10 HHS regions.
Distribution of human adenovirus types, specimen types, and outbreak-related cases — National Adenovirus Type Reporting System, United States, 2017–2023 HAdV type No.
(column %) Specimen type, no.
(row %) Outbreak-related cases no., (row %) Respiratory Stool Other* 3 530 (23.7) 493 (93.0) 5 (0.9) 32 (6.0) 9 (1.7) 4 411 (18.3) 327 (79.6) 65 (15.8) 19 (4.6) 141 (34.3) 2 311 (13.9) 278 (89.4) 5 (1.6) 28 (9.0) 7 (2.3) 7 300 (13.4) 258 (86.0) 22 (7.3) 20 (6.7) 86 (28.7) 1 254 (11.3) 219 (86.2) 7 (2.8) 28 (11.0) 8 (3.1) 14 174 (7.8) 128 (73.6) 10 (5.7) 36 (20.7) 75 (43.1) 41 91 (4.1) 21 (23.1) 27 (29.7) 43 (47.3) 39 (42.9) 5 90 (4.0) 73 (81.1) 0 (—) 17 (18.9) 2 (2.2) Other† 80 (3.6) 48 (60.0) 2 (2.5) 30 (37.5) 14 (17.5) Total (row %) 2,241 (100.1)§ 1,845 (82.3) 143 (6.4) 253 (11.3) 381 (17.0) Abbreviation: HAdV = human adenovirus.
* Other specimen type includes unidentified source (183; 72.3%), blood (39; 15.4%), ocular swab (13; 5.1%), serum (13; 5.1%), urine (4; 1.6%), and tissue (1; 0.4%).
† Other HAdV types include 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 21, 22, 25, 31, 35, 37, 40, 53, and 56.
§ Total percentage does not sum to 100.0 because of rounding.
Top FIGURE 2.
Percent distribution of specimen types reported (A) and number of human adenovirus types (B),* by year of specimen collection — National Adenovirus Type Reporting System, United States, 2017–2023 Abbreviation: HAdV = human adenovirus.
* Frequencies of the top three HAdV types each year are as follows: 2017: HAdV-4 (19.0%), HAdV-7 (18.3%), and HAdV-3 (16.2%); 2018: HAdV-4 (32.2%), HAdV-7 (21.2%), and HAdV-14 (15.6%); 2019: HAdV-3 (30.6%), HAdV-7 (19.9%), and HAdV-4 (15.8%); 2020: HAdV-2 (25.9%), HAdV-1 (25.9%), and HAdV-3 (17.2%); 2021: HAdV-2 (44.7%), HAdV-1 (25.2%), and HAdV-41 (12.6%); 2022: HAdV-2 (22.2%), HAdV-4 (21.1%), and HAdV-1 (18.5%); 2023: HAdV-3 (68.9%), HAdV-2 (11.0%), and HAdV-1 (5.9%).
Top Suggested citation for this article: Abdirizak F, Winn AK, Parikh R, et al.
Surveillance of Human Adenovirus Types and the Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Reporting — United States, 2017–2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:1136–1141.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Simeone, PhD1,*; Laura D.
Zambrano, PhD1,*; Natasha B.
Halasa, MD2; Katherine E.
Fleming-Dutra, MD1; Margaret M.
Newhams, MPH3; Michael J.
Wu, MSc1; Amber O.
Orzel-Lockwood, MPH3; Satoshi Kamidani, MD, PhD4; Pia S.
Pannaraj, MD5,6; Katherine Irby, MD7; Aline B.
Maddux, MD8,9; Charlotte V.
Hobbs, MD10; Melissa A.
Cameron, MD11; Julie A.
Boom, MD12; Leila C.
Sahni, PhD12; Michele Kong, MD13; Ryan A.
Nofziger, MD14; Jennifer E.
Schuster, MD15; Hillary Crandall, MD, PhD16,17; Janet R.
Hume, MD18; Mary A.
Staat, MD19; Elizabeth H.
Mack, MD20; Tamara T.
Bradford, MD21,22; Sabrina M.
Heidemann, MD23; Emily R.
Levy, MD24; Shira J.
Gertz, MD25; Samina S.
Bhumbra, MD26; Tracie C.
Walker, MD27; Katherine E.
Bline, MD28; Kelly N.
Michelson, MD29,30; Matt S.
Zinter, MD31; Heidi R.
Flori, MD32; Angela P.
Campbell, MD1,†; Adrienne G.
Randolph, MD3,33,34,†; Overcoming COVID-19 Investigators (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Maternal vaccination received during pregnancy could protect infants from COVID-19–related hospitalization.
What is added by this report?
What are the implications for public health practice?
Expectant mothers should remain current with COVID-19 vaccination to protect themselves and their infants from hospitalization and severe outcomes associated with COVID-19.
Vaccination during pregnancy has been associated with protection against infant COVID-19–related hospitalization.
Case-patients (infants hospitalized for COVID-19 outside of birth hospitalization and who had a positive SARS-CoV-2 test result) and control patients (infants hospitalized for COVID-19–like illness with a negative SARS-CoV-2 test result) were compared.
Odds ratios were determined using multivariable logistic regression, comparing the odds of receipt of a maternal COVID-19 vaccine dose (completion of a 2-dose vaccination series or a third or higher dose) during pregnancy with maternal nonvaccination between case- and control patients.
Intensive care unit admissions occurred in 23% of all case-patients, and invasive mechanical ventilation was more common among infants of unvaccinated (9%) compared with vaccinated mothers (1%) (p = 0.02).
Expectant mothers should remain current with COVID-19 vaccination to protect themselves and their infants from hospitalization and severe outcomes associated with COVID-19.
Top Introduction COVID-19 during pregnancy is associated with adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes (1).
Transplacental transfer of vaccine-induced SARS-CoV-2–specific antibodies has been demonstrated, and severe clinical infant outcomes related to COVID-19 are preventable through maternal vaccination (2,3).
Top Methods The Overcoming COVID-19 Network§ used a case-control design to assess VE.
Methods have been described previously (4,5).
Control patients were infants also hospitalized for an acute COVID-19–like illness but who received a negative SARS-CoV-2 test result by NAAT testing during their hospitalization or within 7 days before hospital admission.
The odds of maternal receipt of ≥1 mRNA COVID-19 vaccine dose during pregnancy (second dose or higher) were compared with having received no vaccine doses among mothers of case- and control patients.
Critical illness among case-patients was described by maternal vaccination status.
Critical illness was defined as an illness requiring life support (i.e., receipt of invasive or noninvasive mechanical ventilation, vasopressors, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation), or resulting in death.
Infants were excluded from the analysis if they were born to mothers who 1) received their most recent dose before pregnancy, 2) received only 1 mRNA vaccine dose during pregnancy with no vaccination before pregnancy, 3) received their most recent vaccine dose within the 14 days before delivery, 4) received only 1 dose of a viral vector vaccine, or 5) had unknown or unverifiable vaccination timing or status.
During the surveillance period, Omicron BA.1/BA.1.1, BA.2, BA.4, BA.5, BQ.1/BQ1.1, XBB.1.5, and XBB.1.16 were the most commonly circulating subvariants.
Maternal vaccination status was ascertained among those who had received ≥2 mRNA vaccine doses, at least one of which occurred during pregnancy, or 1 viral vector vaccine dose followed by ≥1 mRNA vaccine dose during pregnancy.
Timing of vaccination was based on the date of receipt of the most recent vaccine dose.
The interval between receipt of the last dose and the infant’s hospitalization was calculated as the number of inclusive days between those events.
Odds ratios were calculated using multivariable logistic regression, comparing the odds of maternal receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine dose during pregnancy with the odds of being unvaccinated between case- and control patients.
All models controlled for infant age (in months), sex, race and ethnicity, U.S.
Census Bureau region, and month and year of hospital admission.** Generalized estimating equations were used to include study site as a repeated effect.
Results were not adjusted for multiple comparisons.
All analyses were performed using SAS software (version 9.4; SAS Institute).
This activity was reviewed by CDC, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.†† Top Results Among 1,076 eligible infants hospitalized during March 9, 2022–May 31, 2023, a total of 360 (33%) were excluded, 288 (80%) of whom were born to mothers who received their most recent vaccine dose before pregnancy.§§ Among the remaining 716 hospitalized infants (377 case-patients and 339 control patients), the median age was 2.3 months (IQR = 1.2–4.2 months), 153 (21%) were reported to have at least one underlying health condition, and 162 (23%) were born before 37 completed gestational weeks (preterm).
Among the 377 case-patients, 82 (22%) were born to mothers who had received a COVID-19 vaccine dose during pregnancy, compared with 94 (28%) born to mothers of control patients (p = 0.06) (Table 1).
Vaccinated mothers of case- and control patients were similar in terms of timing of vaccine receipt, with approximately two thirds in each group receiving their most recent vaccine dose during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy (p = 0.18).
Census Bureau region (p = 0.38), prevalence of preterm birth (24% and 22%, respectively; p = 0.51), and the presence of at least one underlying health condition (23% and 20%, respectively; p = 0.33).
The prevalence of underlying cardiac conditions was higher among case-patients (9%) than among control patients (5%) (p = 0.04).
The median interval between receipt of the most recent vaccine dose and infant hospitalization was 236 days (Table 2).
Among the 377 case-patients, 86 (23%) were admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU), and 50 (13%) were critically ill and required life support (Table 3).
Mothers of 42 (84%) of the 50 critically ill infants were unvaccinated.
Invasive mechanical ventilation was more common among case-patients with unvaccinated mothers (25 of 295, 8%) than among those whose mothers were vaccinated during pregnancy (one, 1%) (p = 0.02).
Overall, 77% of case-patients had no reported underlying health conditions.
This finding aligns with at least one other study, which demonstrated increased protection among infants during the first 90 days of life (6).
In the current report, among 377 infants hospitalized with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19, 295 (78%) were born to women who had never received a COVID-19 vaccine dose.
Currently, COVID-19 mRNA vaccines are approved in the United States for all persons aged ≥6 months, and these findings indicate that maternal vaccination during pregnancy could help prevent COVID-19–related hospitalization in infants too young to be vaccinated, particularly during the first 3 months of life.
Similarly, in the current report, previously healthy infants accounted for 77% of case-patients, with critical illness occurring in 13%.
Maternal vaccination, including receipt of a third dose during pregnancy, has been associated with reduced risk for infant hospitalization (4–6).
Further, maternal vaccination during pregnancy has not been associated with increased risk for adverse pregnancy and infant outcomes (8).
Together, these data highlight the importance of early-life protection from severe COVID-19 outcomes through maternal vaccination.
Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least six limitations.
First, this investigation was not sufficiently powered to assess VE against hospitalizations attributed to specific Omicron subvariants.
Second, the sample size was too small to assess VE with precision by vaccine manufacturer, dose number, receipt of bivalent doses, or timing of vaccination during pregnancy.
Third, the analysis did not account for previous infection status among women before or during pregnancy, and infection-induced antibodies could provide some protection against infant COVID-19–related hospitalization.
Fourth, the analysis did not collect information on maternal characteristics and protective behaviors, which are potential uncontrolled confounders.
Fifth, maternal breastfeeding, which can confer maternal COVID-19 antibodies to the infant (9), could not be assessed because of the high proportion of missing interview responses.
Finally, information on maternal vaccination status and infant race and ethnicity was collected via self-report for a few participants, potentially resulting in differential misclassification.
Additional evaluations should examine VE of maternal receipt of updated COVID-19 vaccines and the impact of potential waning immunity in infants aged ≥3 months.
Expectant mothers should be counseled to remain current with COVID-19 vaccination to protect themselves and their infants from hospitalization and severe outcomes associated with COVID-19.
Top Candice Colston, Children’s of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama; Heather Kelley, Children’s of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama; Meghan Murdock, Children’s of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama; Laura Miron, Arkansas Children’s Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas; Ronald C.
Sanders, Arkansas Children’s Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas; Daniel Hakimi, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Jaycee Jumarang, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Kennis-Grace Mrotek, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Liria Muriscot Niell, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Natasha Baig, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Lexi Petruccelli, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Yamila Sierra, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Elizabeth Temte, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Imogene Thayer, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Frances Zorensky, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; Nadine Baida, Emory University School of Medicine and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia; Jong-Ha C.
Choi, Emory University School of Medicine and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia; Caroline R.
Ciric, Emory University School of Medicine and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia; Mark D.
Gonzalez, Emory University School of Medicine and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia; Bria M.
Coates, Ann & Robert H.
Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Heather E.
Price, Ann & Robert H.
Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Mary Stumpf, Riley Hospital for Children, Indianapolis, Indiana; Maya Clark, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Rylie Dittrich, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Suden Kucukak, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Eve Listerud, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Patrick Moran, University of Michigan C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Noelle M.
Drapeau, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; Brandi A.
Johnson, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; Lacy Malloch, Children’s Hospital of Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Lora Martin, Children’s Hospital of Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Maygan Martin, Children’s Hospital of Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Kayla Patterson, Children’s Hospital of Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Cameron Sanders, Children’s Hospital of Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Shannon Pruitt; Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri; Melissa Sullivan, Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri;; Stephanie P.
Schwartz, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Merry Tomcany, Akron Children’s Hospital, Akron, Ohio; Chelsea C.
Rohlfs, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio; Amber Wolfe, Nationwide Children’s Hospital, Columbus, Ohio; Fatima A.
Mohammed, Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health, Charleston, South Carolina; J.
Nelson Reed, Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health, Charleston, South Carolina; Zachary Rusler, Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health, Charleston, South Carolina; Jack Thomas, Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health, Charleston, South Carolina; Cayla Wakser, Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health, Charleston, South Carolina; Kailee Fernandez, Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt, Nashville, Tennessee; Laura S.
Stewart, Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt, Nashville, Tennessee; Leenah Abojaib, Texas Children’s Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Molly J.
Kyles, Texas Children’s Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas Top Overcoming COVID-19 Investigators Top Corresponding author: Regina M.
Simeone, rsimeone@cdc.gov.
Top 1Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; 2Department of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee; 3Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; 4The Center for Childhood Infections and Vaccines of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta and the Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; 5Division of Infectious Diseases, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; 6Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, California; 7Section of Pediatric Critical Care, Department of Pediatrics, Arkansas Children’s Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas; 8Department of Pediatrics, Section of Critical Care Medicine, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado; 9Children’s Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; 10Department of Pediatrics, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi; 11Division of Pediatric Hospital Medicine, University of California San Diego-Rady Children’s Hospital, San Diego, California; 12Immunization Project, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Children’s Hospital, Houston, Texas; 13Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama; 14Division of Critical Care Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Akron Children’s Hospital, Akron, Ohio; 15Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri; 16Division of Pediatric Critical Care, Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah; 17Primary Children’s Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah; 18Division of Pediatric Critical Care, University of Minnesota Masonic Children’s Hospital, Minneapolis, Minnesota; 19Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio; 20Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina; 21Department of Pediatrics, Division of Cardiology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, Louisiana; 22Children’s Hospital of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana; 23Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Children’s Hospital of Michigan, Central Michigan University, Detroit, Michigan; 24Divisions of Pediatric Infectious Diseases and Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; 25Division of Pediatric Critical Care, Department of Pediatrics, Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center, Livingston, New Jersey; 26Ryan White Center for Pediatric Infectious Disease and Global Health, Department of Pediatrics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana; 27Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Children’s Hospital, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; 28Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Nationwide Children’s Hospital Columbus, Ohio; 29Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois; 30Division of Critical Care Medicine, Ann & Robert H.
Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; 31Department of Pediatrics, Divisions of Critical Care Medicine and Allergy, Immunology, and Bone Marrow Transplant, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California; 32Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan; 33Department of Anaesthesia, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; 34Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
Simeone reports payments received by her spouse from a previously managed Pfizer investment, which was sold in April 2023.
Natasha Halasa reports grant support from Sanofi, Quidel, and Merck, and testing and vaccine donation for Sanofi; and an education grant for delivering a lecture.
Satoshi Kamidani reports institutional support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Pfizer, Meissa, and Emergent BioSolutions; and honoraria from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP).
Pannaraj reports institutional support from AstraZeneca and NIH, payment for expert testimony, and unpaid service on the AAP’s Committee on Infectious Diseases and the California Immunization Coalition.
Maddux reports support from the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infections Consortium for conference attendance.
Charlotte V.
Hobbs reports receipt of consulting fees from  for review of a clinical database and honoraria from bioMérieux for speaking at Biofire (bioMérieux) 2022.
Boom reports receipt of royalties from UpToDate, Inc.
for chapter authorship.
Michele Kong reports institutional support from NIH and KultureCity board membership.
Jennifer E.
Schuster reports institutional support from NIH and the Food and Drug Administration, consulting fees from the Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology and the Association of American Medical Colleges, and honoraria from the Missouri American Academy of Pediatrics.
Hume reports institutional support from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and NIH, consulting fees from Entegrion, and uncompensated service on a data safety managing board for an institutional study at the University of Minnesota.
Staat reports institutional support from NIH, Merck, and Cepheid, and royalties from UpToDate, Inc.
for unrelated subject matter.
Levy reports institutional support from the National Institute on Allergy and Infectious Diseases and consulting fees from the Health Resources and Service Administration Regional Pediatric Pandemic Network.
Flori reports consulting fees from NOTA Laboratories and Lucira Health, unrelated to the current work; housing compensation from the Society of Critical Care Medicine for participation in the Pediatric Surviving Sepsis Campaign; and unfunded participation on a data safety monitory board for normoxia in cardiothoracic surgery and cyclodextrin in Niemann-Pick disease.
Adrienne G.
Randolph reports grant support from NIH for work related to COVID-19, royalties from UpToDate, Inc.
for work as the Pediatric Critical Care Medicine section editor; honoraria from grand rounds presentations on multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and sepsis; meeting attendance support from the International Sepsis Forum, participation on a data safety monitoring board for the NIH Grace Study; chair of the Families Fighting Flu International Sepsis Forum medical advisory board; and receipt of reagents from Illumina, Inc.
No other potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * These authors contributed equally to this report.
† These senior authors contributed equally to this report.
§ Infants were enrolled from 26 pediatric hospitals in 20 states, in all four U.S.
Census Bureau regions.
Northeast: Boston Children’s Hospital (Massachusetts) and Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center (New Jersey); Midwest: Akron Children’s Hospital (Ohio), Children’s Hospital Medical Center (Ohio), Children’s Hospital of Michigan (Michigan), Children’s Mercy Kansas City (Missouri), C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital (Michigan), Lurie Children’s Hospital (Illinois), Mayo Clinic (Minnesota), Minnesota Masonic (Minnesota), Nationwide (Ohio), and Riley Hospital for Children (Indiana); South: Arkansas Children’s Hospital (Arkansas), Children’s of Alabama (Alabama), Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory (Georgia), Children’s Hospital of New Orleans (Louisiana), Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health (South Carolina), Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt (Tennessee), Texas Children’s Hospital (Texas), University of Mississippi Medical Center (Mississippi), and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Children’s Hospital (North Carolina); West: Children’s Hospital Colorado (Colorado), Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (California), University of California, San Francisco Benioff Children’s Hospital (California), University of California San Diego-Rady Children’s Hospital (California), and Primary Children’s Hospital (Utah).
¶ Infants were hospitalized outside of their birth hospitalization.
** Infant receipt of breast milk was missing for 45% of respondents and was not included in the model; infant testing for coinfections was missing for 60% of infants and was not included in the model.
†† 45 C.F.R.
part 46.102(l)(2), 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
§§ Among 360 excluded infants, 288 (80%) were born to mothers who received their last vaccine dose before pregnancy, 55 (15%) to partially vaccinated mothers, three (0.8%) to mothers who completed their primary series or received a booster dose within 14 days of delivery, three (0.8%) to mothers who received only 1 dose of Janssen recombinant vaccine during pregnancy, eight (3%) to mothers whose vaccination status could not be verified, and three (0.8%) to mothers whose timing of vaccination relative to pregnancy was unknown.
¶¶ One infant death before hospital discharge occurred in an infant aged ≥3 months whose mother was unvaccinated during pregnancy.
Top References Smith ER, Oakley E, Grandner GW, et al.
Clinical risk factors of adverse outcomes among women with COVID-19 in the pregnancy and postpartum period: a sequential, prospective meta-analysis.
Am J Obstet Gynecol 2023;228:161–77.
 PMID:36027953 Rawal S, Tackett RL, Stone RH, Young HN.
COVID-19 vaccination among pregnant people in the United States: a systematic review.
Am J Obstet Gynecol MFM 2022;4:100616.
 PMID:35283351 Toussia-Cohen S, Nir O, Peretz-Machluf R, et al.
Maternal and neonatal immune responses following COVID-19 infection and vaccinations in pregnancy.
Vaccines (Basel) 2022;10:2019.
 PMID:36560429 Halasa NB, Olson SM, Staat MA, et al.; Overcoming Covid-19 Investigators.
Maternal vaccination and risk of hospitalization for Covid-19 among infants.
N Engl J Med 2022;387:109–19.
 PMID:35731908 Halasa NB, Olson SM, Staat MA, et al.; Overcoming COVID-19 Investigators; Overcoming COVID-19 Network.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:264–70.
 PMID:35176002 Lipschuetz M, Guedalia J, Cohen SM, et al.
Maternal third dose of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine and risk of infant COVID-19 hospitalization.
Nat Med 2023;29:1155–63.
 PMID:36959421 Hamid S, Woodworth K, Pham H, et al.; COVID-NET Surveillance Team.
COVID-19–associated hospitalizations among U.S.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1442–8.
 PMID:36355608 Badell ML, Dude CM, Rasmussen SA, Jamieson DJ.
COVID-19 vaccination in pregnancy.
BMJ 2022;378:e069741.
 PMID:35948352 Olearo F, Radmanesh LS, Felber N, et al.
Anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in breast milk during lactation after infection or vaccination: a cohort study.
J Reprod Immunol 2022;153:103685.
 PMID:36029724 Top TABLE 1.
missing) Case-patients no.
(column %) n = 377 Control patients no.
(column %) n = 339 p-value§ Median age, mos (IQR) 2.4 (1.2–4.3) 2.2 (1.2–3.9) 0.17 Age group, mos 0–2 227 (60.2) 214 (63.1) 0.42 3–5 150 (39.8) 125 (36.9) Sex, female 155 (41.1) 153 (45.1) 0.28 Race and ethnicity Asian, non-Hispanic 12 (3.2) 10 (2.9) 0.41 Black or African American, non-Hispanic 84 (22.3) 58 (17.1) White, non-Hispanic 154 (40.8) 150 (44.2) Hispanic or Latino, any race 79 (21.0) 66 (19.5) Other, non-Hispanic 24 (6.4) 24 (7.1) Unknown 24 (6.4) 31 (9.1) Median SVI (IQR)¶ 0.5 (0.4–0.7) 0.5 (0.4–0.7) 0.97 U.S.
Census Bureau region** Northeast 27 (7.2) 29 (8.6) 0.38 Midwest 80 (21.2) 80 (23.6) South 189 (50.1) 148 (43.7) West 81 (21.5) 82 (24.2) Omicron subvariant (predominant period of admission)†† BA.1.1/BA.2 (Mar 9, 2022–Jul 16, 2022) 65 (17.2) 73 (21.5) 0.53 BA.4/BA.5 (Jul 17, 2022–Dec 3, 2022) 146 (38.7) 121 (35.7) BQ.1.1 (Dec 4, 2022–Jan 28, 2023) 96 (25.5) 85 (25.1) XBB.1.5/XBB.1.16 (Jan 29, 2023–May 31, 2023) 70 (18.6) 60 (17.7) Underlying health condition in infants (1) At least one underlying condition (1) 86 (22.8) 67 (19.8) 0.33 Respiratory condition (1) 27 (7.2) 20 (5.9) 0.50 Cardiac condition (1) 35 (9.3) 18 (5.3) 0.04 Other health condition (1)§§ 63 (16.7) 48 (14.2) 0.35 Codetection with respiratory syncytial virus (204)¶¶ No.
positive/Total no.
of maternal doses received during pregnancy¶¶¶ Completed primary series**** 22 (26.8) 32 (34.0) 0.30 Received ≥1 booster dose††††,§§§§ 60 (73.2) 62 (66.0) Abbreviation: SVI = social vulnerability index.
* Infants were excluded from analysis if they were born to mothers who had received their most recent dose before pregnancy, received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine, received their most recent vaccine dose within 14 days of delivery, received only 1 dose of a viral vector vaccine, or whose vaccination status could not be verified or timing of which was unknown.
† Infants were enrolled from 26 pediatric hospitals in 20 states, in all four U.S.
Census Bureau regions.
Northeast: Boston Children’s Hospital (Massachusetts) and Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center (New Jersey); Midwest: Akron Children’s Hospital (Ohio), Children’s Hospital Medical Center (Ohio), Children’s Hospital of Michigan (Michigan), Children’s Mercy Kansas City (Missouri), C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital (Michigan), Lurie Children’s Hospital (Illinois), Mayo Clinic (Minnesota), Minnesota Masonic (Minnesota), Nationwide (Ohio), and Riley Hospital for Children (Indiana); South: Arkansas Children’s Hospital (Arkansas), Children’s of Alabama (Alabama), Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory (Georgia), Children’s Hospital of New Orleans (Louisiana), Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health (South Carolina), Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt (Tennessee), Texas Children’s Hospital (Texas), University of Mississippi Medical Center (Mississippi), and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Children’s Hospital (North Carolina); West: Children’s Hospital Colorado (Colorado), Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (California), University of California, San Francisco Benioff Children’s Hospital (California), University of California San Diego-Rady Children’s Hospital (California), and Primary Children’s Hospital (Utah).
§ Testing for statistical significance was conducted using the Pearson’s chi-square test and Fisher’s exact test for comparisons with fewer than five observations.
Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were used to compare continuous data.
¶ Median SVIs for case-patients and control patients are based on 2020 U.S.
The SVI ranges from 0 to 1.0, with higher scores indicating greater social vulnerability.
 §§ Other health conditions included neurologic or neuromuscular disorders, non-oncologic immunosuppressive disorders, active or previous oncologic disorders, endocrine disorders, diabetes, obesity, rheumatologic or autoimmune disorder, hematologic disorder, renal or urologic dysfunction, gastrointestinal or hepatic disorder, metabolic or confirmed or suspected genetic disorder, or atopic or allergic condition.
¶¶ Testing for respiratory syncytial virus was missing or not conducted for 31% of case-patients and 26% of control patients.
*** Missing or unknown prematurity status was classified as term (≥37 weeks’ gestation); six case-patients and eight control patients were missing gestational age and classified as being born at term (≥37 weeks’ gestation).
††† Maternal vaccination status was based on the last date of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose: unvaccinated was defined as mothers who had not received any vaccine dose before or during pregnancy, and vaccinated was defined as mothers who received their last dose of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine between the first day of pregnancy and 14 days before delivery.
Among those vaccinated during pregnancy, mothers could have received ≥1 dose during pregnancy.
Mothers who received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine were considered partially vaccinated and were excluded from the analysis.
Mothers whose last vaccine dose occurred before pregnancy were excluded from the analysis.
§§§ Timing of vaccination is based on date of receipt of the last dose of a COVID-19 vaccine during pregnancy.
¶¶¶ Percentages calculated among those vaccinated during pregnancy.
**** Thirty-six women (17 mothers of case-patients and 19 mothers of control patients) initiated and completed a 2-dose mRNA series during pregnancy.
†††† Seven women (three mothers of case-patients and four mothers of control patients) had received a Janssen vaccine dose before pregnancy and an mRNA vaccine during pregnancy; three women (two mothers of case-patients and one mother of a control patient) received 1 Janssen and 1 mRNA vaccine dose before pregnancy, and 1 mRNA vaccine dose during pregnancy; two women (one mother of a case-patient and one mother of a control patient) received all 3 mRNA vaccine doses during pregnancy.
§§§§ Eight women received a bivalent dose (five mothers of case-patients and three mothers of control patients).
Top TABLE 2.
vaccinated/Total no.
(%) Interval between last vaccine dose and infant hospitalization, days (IQR) VE, % (95% CI) Case-patients Control patients 0–5 82/377 (21.8) 94/339 (27.7) 236 (185–300) 35 (15–51) 0–2 43/227 (18.9) 63/214 (29.4) 219 (152–264) 54 (32–68) Abbreviation: VE = vaccine effectiveness.
* VE estimates were based on odds of maternal vaccination during pregnancy in case-patients versus control patients, adjusted for U.S.
Census Bureau region, admission date (monthly), age (in months), sex, and race and ethnicity (non-Hispanic Black or African American, non-Hispanic White, non-Hispanic other, Hispanic or Latino of any race, or unknown).
Study site was included as a repeated effect.
VE was calculated as (1 – adjusted odds ratio) x 100%.
† Maternal vaccination status was based on the last date of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose: unvaccinated was defined as mothers who had not received any vaccine dose before or during pregnancy, and vaccinated was defined as mothers who received their last dose of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine between the first day of pregnancy and 14 days before delivery.
Among those vaccinated during pregnancy, mothers could have received ≥1 dose during pregnancy.
Mothers who received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine were considered partially vaccinated and were excluded from the analysis.
Mothers whose last vaccine dose occurred before pregnancy were excluded from the analysis.
§ Infants were excluded from analysis if they were born to mothers who had received their most recent dose before pregnancy, received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine, received their most recent vaccine dose within 14 days of delivery, received only 1 dose of a viral vector vaccine, or whose vaccination status could not be verified or whose timing of vaccination was unknown.
¶ Infants were enrolled from 26 pediatric hospitals in 20 states, in all four U.S.
Census Bureau regions.
Northeast: Boston Children’s Hospital (Massachusetts) and Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center (New Jersey); Midwest: Akron Children’s Hospital (Ohio), Children’s Hospital Medical Center (Ohio), Children’s Hospital of Michigan (Michigan), Children’s Mercy Kansas City (Missouri), C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital (Michigan), Lurie Children’s Hospital (Illinois), Mayo Clinic (Minnesota), Minnesota Masonic (Minnesota), Nationwide (Ohio), and Riley Hospital for Children (Indiana); South: Arkansas Children’s Hospital (Arkansas), Children’s of Alabama (Alabama), Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory (Georgia), Children’s Hospital of New Orleans (Louisiana), Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health (South Carolina), Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt (Tennessee), Texas Children’s Hospital (Texas), University of Mississippi Medical Center (Mississippi), and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Children’s Hospital (North Carolina); West: Children’s Hospital Colorado (Colorado), Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (California), University of California, San Francisco Benioff Children’s Hospital (California), University of California San Diego-Rady Children’s Hospital (California), and Primary Children’s Hospital (Utah).
Top TABLE 3.
missing) Maternal COVID-19 vaccination status, no.
(%) p-value¶ Total Unvaccinated Vaccinated All infants 377 (100.0) 295 (100.0) 82 (100.0) — Intensive care unit admission 86 (22.8) 65 (22.0) 21 (25.6) 0.55 Critical illness** 50 (13.3) 42 (14.2) 8 (9.8) 0.36 Invasive mechanical ventilation 26 (6.9) 25 (8.5) 1 (1.2) 0.02 Noninvasive mechanical ventilation 28 (7.4) 23 (7.8) 5 (6.1) 0.81 Vasoactive infusions 14 (3.7) 11 (3.7) 3 (3.7) 1.00 Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation†† 1 (0.3) 1 (0.3) 0 (—) 1.00 Hospital length of stay, days, median (IQR) (1)§§ 2 (1–3) 2 (1–3) 2 (1–3) 0.89 Died before discharge (1)††,¶¶ 1/376 (0.3) 1/294 (0.3) 0 (—) 1.00 Infants with no underlying health conditions (% of all infants) 291 (77.2) 230 (78.0) 61 (74.4) — Intensive care unit admission 63 (21.6) 47 (20.4) 16 (26.2) 0.38 Critical illness** 37 (12.7) 32 (13.9) 5 (8.2) 0.28 Invasive mechanical ventilation 18 (6.2) 18 (7.8) 0 (—) 0.02 Noninvasive mechanical ventilation 19 (6.5) 16 (7.0) 3 (4.9) 0.77 Vasoactive infusions 12 (4.1) 10 (4.3) 2 (3.3) 1.00 Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation†† 1 (0.3) 1 (0.4) 0 (—) 1.00 Hospital length of stay, days, median (IQR) (1)§§ 2 (1–3) 2 (1–3) 2 (1–3) 0.66 Died before discharge (1)††,¶¶ 1/290 (0.3) 1/229 (0.4) 0 (—) 1.00 * Infants were excluded from analysis if they were born to mothers who had received their most recent dose before pregnancy, received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine, received their most recent vaccine dose within 14 days of delivery, received only 1 dose of a viral vector vaccine, or whose vaccination status could not be verified, or timing of vaccination was unknown.
† Maternal vaccination status was based on the last date of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose: unvaccinated was defined as mothers who had not received any vaccine dose before or during pregnancy, and vaccinated was defined as mothers who received their last dose of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine between the first day of pregnancy and 14 days before delivery.
Among those vaccinated during pregnancy, mothers could have received ≥1 dose during pregnancy.
Mothers who received only 1 dose of an mRNA vaccine were considered partially vaccinated and were excluded from the analysis.
Mothers whose last vaccine dose occurred before pregnancy were excluded from the analysis.
§ Infants were enrolled from 26 pediatric hospitals in 20 states, in all four U.S.
Census Bureau regions.
Northeast: Boston Children’s Hospital (Massachusetts) and Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center (New Jersey); Midwest: Akron Children’s Hospital (Ohio), Children’s Hospital Medical Center (Ohio), Children’s Hospital of Michigan (Michigan), Children’s Mercy Kansas City (Missouri), C.S.
Mott Children’s Hospital (Michigan), Lurie Children’s Hospital (Illinois), Mayo Clinic (Minnesota), Minnesota Masonic (Minnesota), Nationwide (Ohio), and Riley Hospital for Children (Indiana); South: Arkansas Children’s Hospital (Arkansas), Children’s of Alabama (Alabama), Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory (Georgia), Children’s Hospital of New Orleans (Louisiana), Medical University of South Carolina Children’s Health (South Carolina), Monroe Carell Jr.
Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt (Tennessee), Texas Children’s Hospital (Texas), University of Mississippi Medical Center (Mississippi), and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Children’s Hospital (North Carolina); West: Children’s Hospital Colorado (Colorado), Children’s Hospital Los Angeles (California), University of California, San Francisco Benioff Children’s Hospital (California), University of California San Diego-Rady Children’s Hospital (California), and Primary Children’s Hospital (Utah).
¶ Testing for statistical significance was conducted using a Fisher’s exact test.
Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were used to compare length of stay.
** Critical illness was defined as an illness that led to life support (noninvasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or vasoactive infusions) or death.
Infants with an indication of any of these events were considered to have critical illness.
†† The infant receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was not the same as the infant who died.
The infant missing survival status at discharge was still hospitalized at the time of analysis.
§§ Length of stay was calculated among infants alive at discharge (376 among all infants and 290 among infants with no underlying health conditions).
The infant missing length of stay was still hospitalized at the time of the analysis.
¶¶ One infant missing information about survival status at discharge was still hospitalized at the time of analysis.
The denominators for the total and unvaccinated columns were reduced by 1 to account for this missing data.
The infant who died was aged ≥3 months.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Simeone RM, Zambrano LD, Halasa NB, et al.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:1057–1064.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu SEARCH About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL About Pandemic Flu A pandemic can occur when a new influenza A virus is able to easily infect and spread among people.
Learn More Monitoring for Influenza Viruses CDC plays an important role in helping to establish, maintain, and expand flu surveillance.
National Pandemic Strategy National, state and local pandemic planning and response tools What CDC Is Doing Learn about CDC's global flu programs and CDC's work to protect the United States and the world.
Featured Interim Updated Planning Guidance Pandemic Vaccine Targeting Guidance leads U.S.
preparedness and response in a flu pandemic.
IRAT Report Summaries Past descriptions and report summaries for influenza A viruses assessed by the IRAT Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All Vaccine Effectiveness Public Health SEPT.
5, 2025 PURPOSE Vaccine effectiveness measures how well vaccination works under real-world conditions to protect people against health outcomes such as symptomatic illness, hospitalization, and death.
CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program protects public health through the data-driven science of conducting observational studies that provide timely evidence and inform policy recommendations to prevent illness, disability, and death from respiratory viruses.
CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program In collaboration with public health and academic partners, CDC conducts observational studies to evaluate the real-world effectiveness of FDA authorized and licensed COVID-19 vaccines.
Guiding principles for monitoring vaccine effectiveness Researchers use information collected through public health surveillance systems, electronic health records, and prospective studies.
CDC's COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program evaluates current COVID-19 vaccines by: Assessing real-world COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness in key populations and against key outcomes.
Providing timely data to evaluate effectiveness of new vaccine recommendations.
Detecting changes in COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness due to waning of vaccine-induced protection and emergence of new variants.
Monitoring populations at high risk for severe COVID-19.
Reviewing existing vaccine policy and informing new vaccine policy.
Communicating findings to policy makers, the scientific community, the public, and other stakeholders to increase vaccine confidence and uptake.
Types of vaccine effectiveness Vaccine effectiveness is generally measured by comparing the frequency of health outcomes in vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
Absolute vaccine effectiveness is when a study compares vaccinated people to unvaccinated people.
Relative vaccine effectiveness is when a study compares people who have received one vaccine type or vaccine schedule to those who received a different vaccine type or vaccine schedule.
Incremental vaccine effectiveness refers to measures that compare people who received more doses with those who received fewer doses.
Did you know?
More than 99% of adults and most children in the U.S.
have been vaccinated against COVID-19, been infected with SARS-CoV-2, or both.
CDC now measures incremental vaccine effectiveness— interpreted as added protection above baseline immunity.
This helps policymakers decide if people who have been vaccinated might benefit from an extra dose or other vaccine product.
Factors that can influence vaccine effectiveness Several factors influence vaccine effectiveness, including: Population-related factors, such as age, presence of underlying risk factors (e.g., diabetes, cancer, or pregnancy), and history of prior infection Pathogen-related factors, such as the virus variant(s) circulating Risk settings, such as residents of long-term care facilities or healthcare workers Vaccine factors, such as type of vaccine, vaccine dose, and time since vaccination Outcome factors, ranging from mild symptomatic infection to severe outcomes, like hospitalization and death Collecting information on these factors and adjusting for important epidemiologic confounders allows CDC to minimize bias in measuring vaccine effectiveness.
Vaccine effectiveness can differ by the type of vaccine product, total number of vaccine doses given, and time since the most recent vaccine dose was received.
Vaccine effectiveness might also differ in high-risk populations, such as older individuals or those with immunocompromising conditions.
To account for these differences, effectiveness estimates are often presented by: Age group Presence of immunocompromising conditions Populations at increased risk for severe COVID-19, such as long-term care facility residents Vaccine effectiveness informs vaccine policy Preventing severe COVID-19 is the priority of the U.S.
COVID-19 vaccination program.
The program monitors outcomes that are important to patients and that generate evidence relevant to COVID-19 vaccine policy including: Critical illness or death due to COVID-19 Hospitalization for COVID-19 Medically attended COVID-19 (e.g., urgent care and emergency department visits) Symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection CDC's vaccine effectiveness monitoring platforms serve as a pillar of the nation's early warning detection and response system for routine respiratory and other vaccine preventable disease threats which can easily overwhelm our healthcare systems.
Vaccine effectiveness evaluations Critical illness or death due to COVID-19, hospitalization for COVID-19, and medically attended COVID-19 Hospitalization, critical illness and death are widely recognized measures of severe COVID-19.
Prior CDC studies have shown that COVID-19 vaccines may provide lasting protection against critical illness or death due to COVID-19.
CDC works with partners to evaluate vaccine effectiveness in preventing hospitalizations, emergency department visits, and urgent care visits for COVID-19 using the VISION network.
This platform also collects information on the severity of COVID-19-associated hospitalizations and COVID-19-associated deaths.
VISION Outcome: COVID-19-associated emergency department and urgent care visits COVID-19-associated hospitalization Critical illness defined as COVID-19-associated intensive care unit admission or death Population: Individuals of all ages who have an emergency department, urgent care visit, or hospitalization with a COVID-19-like illness within the facility network Participating Sites: Columbia University (New York) HealthPartners (Minnesota and Wisconsin) Intermountain Healthcare (Utah) Kaiser Permanente Northern California (California) Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research (Oregon and Washington) Regenstrief Institute (Indiana) University of Colorado (Colorado) KEEP READING VISION Vaccine Effectiveness Network Symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection The primary goal of the COVID-19 vaccination program is to prevent severe illness and death.
However, monitoring effectiveness of vaccines against infection provided insights into the impact of vaccines against new variants and provided an early signal of waning immunity.
Studies monitoring vaccine effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection can be subject to bias due to changes in COVID-19 testing practices, including increased use of at-home testing, or different testing practices among vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.
CDC employed multiple study designs and various statistical methods to account for the influence of such factors when measuring vaccine effectiveness.
KEEP READING Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) - Reports by Topic ON THIS PAGE CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness program Vaccine effectiveness evaluations RELATED PAGES Surveillance and Data Analytics Preliminary Estimates of COVID-19 Burden for 2024-2025 How CDC Estimates the Burden of COVID-19 in the US Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines VIEW ALL COVID-19 Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Estimated Influenza Illnesses and Hospitalizations Averted by Influenza Vaccination — United States, 2012–13 Influenza Season Weekly December 13, 2013 / 62(49);997-1000 Influenza is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality each year in the United States.
From 1976 to 2007, annual deaths from influenza ranged from approximately 3,300 to 49,000 (1).
Vaccination against influenza has been recommended to prevent illness and related complications, and since 2010, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has recommended that all persons aged ≥6 months be vaccinated against influenza each year (2).
In 2013, CDC published a model to quantify the annual number of influenza-associated illnesses and hospitalizations averted by influenza vaccination during the 2006–11 influenza seasons (3).
Using that model with 2012–13 influenza season vaccination coverage rates, influenza vaccine effectiveness, and influenza hospitalization rates, CDC estimated that vaccination resulted in 79,000 (17%) fewer hospitalizations during the 2012–13 influenza season than otherwise might have occurred.
Based on estimates of the percentage of influenza illnesses that involve hospitalization or medical attention, vaccination also prevented approximately 6.6 million influenza illnesses and 3.2 million medically attended illnesses.
Influenza vaccination during the 2012–13 season produced a substantial reduction in influenza-associated illness.
However, fewer than half of persons aged ≥6 months were vaccinated.
Higher vaccination rates would have resulted in prevention of a substantial number of additional cases and hospitalizations.
CDC used a model published in 2013 (3) to estimate an annual burden of influenza-associated outcomes prevented by influenza vaccination.
All data inputs and estimates were stratified by age group: 6 months–4 years, 5–19 years, 20–64 years, and ≥65 years (Table 1).
The disease burden during the 2012–13 influenza season was estimated in the following steps.
First, laboratory-confirmed influenza-associated hospitalization rates were obtained from FluSurv-NET, a collaboration between CDC, the Emerging Infections Program Network, and selected health departments in 14 geographically distributed areas in the United States that conduct population-based surveillance.
Hospitalization rates were adjusted for underreporting based on surveys conducted during the 2009 influenza pandemic; rates were increased by a factor of 2.74 for all age categories (3).
Influenza illnesses were extrapolated from hospitalization data based on multipliers to reflect the percentage of ill persons who are hospitalized.
Multipliers were age group–specific: 143.4 for 0–4 years; 364.7 for 5–19 years; 148.2 for 20–64 years, and 11.0 for ≥65 years.
The percentage of ill persons who sought medical attention was estimated from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey (BRFSS) (3): 67% for persons aged 0–4 years; 51% for ages 5–19 years; 37% for ages 20–64 years, and 56% for ages ≥65 years.
Second, 2012–13 vaccination coverage and vaccine effectiveness data were used to estimate the size of the susceptible population that was unprotected by vaccination and at risk of these outcomes.
The rate of each outcome among susceptible persons was calculated as the number of estimated outcomes divided by the number of susceptible persons.
This rate was then used to estimate the number of influenza-associated outcomes that would have occurred in a hypothetical, unvaccinated, susceptible population.
Estimates of 2012–13 seasonal influenza vaccination coverage were based on self-report or parental report of vaccination status using data from the National Immunization Survey for children aged ≥6 months–17 years and BRFSS for adults aged ≥18 years,* and varied from 35.8 to 69.3, depending on the age group (Table 1).
Vaccine effectiveness estimates were derived from the U.S.
Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness (Flu VE) Network, a group of five academic institutions that conduct annual vaccine effectiveness studies, and varied from 32% among persons aged ≥65 years to 58% among children aged 6 months–4 years (4).
Finally, the averted outcomes attributable to vaccination were estimated as the difference between outcomes in the hypothetical unvaccinated population and the observed population (3).
The prevented fraction was calculated as the number of averted illnesses divided by the total illnesses that would have been expected in an unvaccinated population.
Overall, 17.3% (CI = 16.2%–18.0%) of adverse health outcomes associated with influenza were prevented.
Although 29% of the averted illnesses and 39% of averted medically attended illnesses were among children aged 6 months–4 years and persons aged ≥65 years (two groups known to be at higher risk for complications), these two age groups accounted for 69% of averted hospitalizations.
Vaccination had a substantial impact on averted hospitalizations in persons aged ≥65 years.
Although persons aged ≥65 years accounted for 7% of the prevented illnesses and 8% of medically attended illnesses, 56% of all hospitalizations prevented were in those aged ≥65 years.
If vaccination levels had reached the Healthy People 2020 target of 70%, approximately 4.4 million illnesses, 1.8 million medically attended illnesses, and 30,000 additional hospitalizations might have been averted.
Reported by Joseph Bresee, MD, Carrie Reed, DSc, Inkyu Kevin Kim, PhD, Lyn Finelli, DrPh, Alicia Fry, MD, Sandra S.
Chaves, MD, Erin Burns, Paul Gargiullo, PhD, Daniel Jernigan, MD, Nancy Cox, PhD, Influenza Div; James Singleton, PhD, Yusheng Zhai, MSPH, Alissa O'Halloran, MSPH, Katherine Kahn, MPH, Peng-Jun Lu, PhD, Tammy A.
Santibanez, PhD, Immunizations Svcs Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Joseph Bresee, jbresee@cdc.gov, 404-639-4651.
Editorial Note The 2012–13 influenza season was characterized as a moderately severe season, based on CDC influenza surveillance data.† During this season, rates of influenza-associated hospitalizations were 42.0 per 100,000 persons, compared with 7.7–23.4 per 100,000 during the previous three seasons.
Among persons aged ≥65 years, hospitalization rates were three to seven times higher than rates observed for this age group during the previous three seasons.
In this setting of a relatively high burden of severe disease, a 17% overall reduction in severe health outcomes resulted in a large number of prevented hospitalizations and medical visits for influenza that exceeded estimates of annual serious outcomes averted during influenza seasons from 2006 to 2011 (3).
The higher estimated prevented fraction in this group compared with older age groups was the result of higher vaccine coverage and vaccine effectiveness.
Although vaccine effectiveness was lowest among persons aged ≥65 years, the relatively high vaccination coverage and high risk for severe outcomes resulted in substantial reductions in hospitalizations in this vulnerable group.
Fewer than half of persons in the United States are vaccinated each year (5), despite a recommendation for universal influenza vaccination for persons aged ≥6 months (3).
Successful efforts to increase vaccination rates among all persons would increase the benefits of immunization programs on reducing illnesses.
Strategies known to improve coverage should be encouraged.
Those include ensuring that all those who visit a provider during the influenza season receive a vaccination recommendation and offer from their provider and using immunization information systems.§ Influenza vaccine effectiveness for the 2012–13 season was estimated to be 51% (CI = 45%–57%) (6), which is similar to estimates from recent seasons in the United States (2,4,6,7).
Use of vaccines that are more effective would increase the number of averted illness and hospitalizations.
However, despite a low measured vaccine effectiveness estimated to be 32% (CI = -5%–56%) among persons aged ≥65 years, vaccination likely produced substantial reductions in illness and hospitalizations because of the intensity of the 2012–13 epidemic and the relatively high vaccination coverage in this group compared with younger adults.
In 2010, a high-dose influenza vaccine (Fluzone HD, Sanofi Pasteur) was licensed for use in persons aged ≥65 years after prelicensure studies demonstrated superior immunogenicity compared with standard-dose vaccines (9).
Final data from a recent efficacy trial are being analyzed.
The findings in this report are subject to at least six limitations.
First, influenza vaccination coverage rates were derived from vaccination status reported by survey respondents, not vaccination records, and are subject to recall bias.
Second, these rates are based on telephone surveys with relatively low response rates; therefore, selection bias might remain after weighting adjustments.
Third, these surveys only cover the noninstitutionalized population.
Fourth, estimates of the number of persons vaccinated based on these survey data exceeded the actual number of doses distributed, indicating coverage estimates used in this report overestimate averted illness resulting from vaccination (5).
Fifth, the model only calculates outcomes directly averted by vaccination.
If there is indirect protection from decreased exposure among unvaccinated persons in a partially vaccinated population (i.e., herd immunity), the model would underestimate the number of prevented illnesses.
Also, although the impact of vaccination in preventing severe outcomes is most pronounced among persons aged ≥65 years, if vaccine effectiveness were lower among frail elderly persons, the model might have overestimated the effect in this group.
Finally, adjustments for underreporting of influenza hospitalizations were based on studies conducted in 2009–10, as were the extrapolation of hospitalization rates to estimate rates of illness and medically attended illness.
Because multipliers were calculated during a pandemic, if the ratio of hospitalizations to other outcomes or the underreporting of hospitalization rates were different in 2012–13 (e.g., through changes in health-seeking behaviors or testing practices), the model might have underestimated or overestimated the effect of vaccination.
Influenza vaccination prevents a substantial number of influenza-associated illnesses and hospitalizations.
Although vaccines with increased effectiveness are needed, much can be done to maximize influenza prevention in the 2013–14 season.¶ In particular, efforts to increase vaccination rates will further reduce the burden of influenza.
Therefore, vaccination should be offered now and as long as influenza continues to circulate.
References CDC.
Estimates of deaths associated with seasonal influenza—United States, 1976–2007.
MMWR 2010;59:1057–62.
Prevention and control of seasonal influenza with vaccines.
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices—United States, 2013–2014.
MMWR 2013;62(No.
Kostova D, Reed C, Finelli L, et al.
Influenza illness and hospitalizations averted by influenza vaccination in the United States, 2005–2011.
PloS One 2013;8:e66312.
Treanor JJ, Talbot HK, Ohmit SE, et al.
Effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccines in the United States during a season with circulation of all three vaccine strains.
Clin Infect Dis 2012;55:951–9.
Flu vaccination coverage, United States, 2012–13 influenza season.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2013.
Available at 
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP): summary report, June 19–20, 2013.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2013.
Available at  .
Ohmit SE, Petrie JG, Malosh RE, et al.
Influenza vaccine effectiveness in the community and the household.
Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:1363–9.
Zhou H, Thompson WW, Viboud CG, et al.
Hospitalizations associated with influenza and respiratory syncytial virus in the United States, 1993–2008.
Clin Infect Dis 2012;54:1427–36.
Falsey AR, Treanor JJ, Tornieporth N, Capellan J, Gorse GJ.
Randomized, double-blind controlled phase 3 trial comparing the immunogenicity of high-dose and standard-dose influenza vaccine in adults 65 years of age and older.
J Infect Dis 2009;200:172–80.
* Methods for estimating season-specific influenza vaccination coverage and descriptions of National Immunization Survey and BRFSS data are available at  .
† National, regional, and state influenza surveillance data can be viewed at 
§ Evidence-based strategies for improving vaccination coverage are described in the Community Guide for Preventive Services, available at 
¶ Full influenza immunization recommendations and a list of available vaccines are available at 
What is already known on this topic?
In 2012, CDC estimated that annual influenza vaccination resulted in 1.1–5.0 million fewer cases and 7,700–40,400 fewer hospitalizations annually during the 2005–11 influenza seasons.
What is added by this report?
Using surveillance data, vaccination coverage survey data and vaccine effectiveness estimates collected during the 2012–13 influenza season, estimates of the impact of influenza vaccination for the most recent season were generated.
Vaccination during that season resulted in an estimated 79,260 fewer hospitalizations, 6.6 million fewer cases of influenza, and 3.2 million fewer medically attended cases.
What are the implications for public health practice?
The study supports the importance of influenza vaccination, but highlights the need for increasing coverage rates and more effective vaccines; efforts to increase vaccination rates can further reduce the burden of influenza.
Variables affecting impact of influenza vaccination, by age group — United States, 2012–13 influenza season Age group (yrs) Cumulative vaccine coverage (%)* Vaccine effectiveness (%)† Total population§ Cumulative hospitalization rate (per 100,000)¶ Estimated hospitalizations** Estimated medically attended cases†† Estimated cases§§ % (95% CI) % (95% CI) No.
(95% CI) No.
(95% CI) No.
(95% CI) 6 mos–4 69.3 (67.8–70.8) 58.0 (40–71) 17,879,414 49.7 24,354 (15,224–38,206) 2,340,568 (1,466,829–3,701,433) 3,493,384 (2,183,709–5,480,282) 5–19 48.5 (47.6–49.4) 46.0 (32–57) 62,505,456 13.3 22,746 (14,172–35,852) 4,230,713 (2,612,263–6,656,229) 8,295,516 (5,168,531–13,075,561) 20–64 35.8 (35.2–36.4) 52.0 (43–60) 188,263,884 23.1 119,167 (78,995–177,656) 6,534,419 (4,292,193–9,776,843) 17,660,591 (11,707,096–26,328,640) ≥65 66.0 (65.2–66.8) 32.0 (0–56) 43,145,356 182.0 215,206 (142,909–316,950) 1,325,672 (871,647–1,968,414) 2,367,271 (1,572,003–3,486,454) All ages 44.7 (44.3–45.1) 51.0 (45–57) 311,794,110 42.0 381,474 (251,300–568,665) 14,431,371 (9,242,933–22,102,920) 31,816,763 (20,631,339–48,370,938) Abbreviation: CI = confidence interval.
* Season-cumulative vaccine overage rates calculated using data from the National Immunization Survey for children aged 6 months–17 years and from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System for adults aged ≥18 years.
Model uses incremental monthly age-specific values.
Estimates of the cumulative monthly proportion vaccinated through end of April of each season were developed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method for receipt of most recent reported influenza vaccination.
Negative lower 95% confidence intervals (CI) were revised to 0.
† Negative lower 95% CI intervals were revised to 0.
§ Calculated from U.S.
Census Bureau annual estimates of the resident population by single year of age and sex for April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2012, available at 
¶ Season-cumulative hospitalization rates calculated using data from the CDC Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET).
Model uses month-specific and age-specific values.
** Estimated using FluSurv-NET hospitalization rates adjusted for underreporting.
The underreporting adjustment multiplier was calculated during the 2009–10 pandemic season and was 2.74 across age categories (3).
†† Based on the estimated number of cases and outpatient medically attended ratios by age group (3).
Estimated number of influenza cases averted by vaccination and the associated fraction prevented, by age group — United States, 2012–13 influenza season Age group (yrs) Averted hospitalizations Averted, medically attended cases Averted cases Fraction prevented No.
(95% CI) No.
(95% CI) No.
(95% CI) % (95% CI) 0–4 10,216 (5,994–16,502) 981,851 (575,222–1,591,166) 1,465,450 (859,735–2,367,044) 29.6 (28.0–30.2) 5–19 4,770 (2,869–7,722) 887,256 (529,333–1,437,481) 1,739,717 (1,046,532–2,816,363) 17.3 (16.8–17.8) 20–64 19,813 (12,887–30,107) 1,086,409 (698,241–1,666,804) 2,936,241 (1,909,887–4,461,808) 14.3 (14.0–14.5) ≥65 44,460 (17,779–82,413) 273,876 (108,797–511,422) 489,065 (195,570–906,541) 17.1 (10.5–21.3) All ages 79,260 (39,530–136,744) 3,229,393 (1,911,592–5,206,874) 6,630,473 (4,011,725–10,551,756) 17.3 (16.2–18.0) Abbreviation: CI = confidence interval.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Adenoviruses EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Outbreaks Clinical Overview VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance Lab Testing VIEW ALL Related Topics: Respiratory Virus Guidance View All JUNE 4, 2024 Laboratory Testing for Adenovirus WHAT TO KNOW Many laboratories can test for human adenoviruses, but the extent of testing capability can vary.
If typing or specialized testing is needed, contact your state health department to discuss available testing options.
Laboratory guidelines Laboratories can detect and type human adenoviruses using: Molecular detection (e.g., Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests (NAATs), such as PCR) Partial or full genome sequencing Antigen detection Virus isolation Virus neutralization with type-specific antisera Additional information on adenovirus testing at CDC is available at Submitting Specimens to CDC.
Specimen collection The types of specimens you should collect for human adenovirus detection depend on the patient's clinical presentation and type of infection.
Before collecting any specimens, discuss with a laboratory and a clinician familiar with adenovirus.
To improve human adenovirus detection, you should collect specimens within a week of symptom onset.
Respiratory Infections For respiratory infections, you should typically collect upper respiratory specimens such as a nasopharyngeal swab and/or oropharyngeal (throat) swab.
If there is evidence of a lower respiratory infection, you should also collect a lower respiratory specimen such as sputum.
In some instances, a serum specimen may be helpful.
Eye Infections If there is clinical evidence of a conjunctival or eye infection, you should collect a conjunctival swab.
Gastroenteritis Infections See Recommendations for Collection of Laboratory Specimens Associated with Outbreaks of Gastroenteritis (cdc.gov).
ON THIS PAGE Laboratory guidelines Specimen collection SOURCES PRINT SHARE Adenovirus Adenoviruses are common and typically cause mild cold or flu-like symptoms.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All Public Health MAY 2, 2025 Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) Virus Descriptions and Report Summaries PURPOSE The Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) is a CDC evaluation tool used to assess the potential pandemic risk posed by influenza A viruses that are not currently circulating in people.Descriptions and report summaries for each of the influenza A viruses evaluated by the IRAT are available on this page.The full IRAT reports are available for download for some of the assessed viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All What CDC Is Doing For Everyone MAY 1, 2024 PURPOSE Influenza poses one of the world's greatest infectious disease challenges.
Flu is always changing, and novel influenza viruses are always emerging.
CDC programs protect the United States from seasonal influenza and pandemic flu, which occurs when a new flu virus emerges that can infect people and spread globally.
Influenza is always changing Flu viruses change constantly, from season to season and sometimes during the season.
Flu vaccines must be updated frequently Each year, influenza causes millions of illnesses, hundreds of thousands of hospitalizations, and tens of thousands of deaths.
Download Each year, influenza causes millions of illnesses, hundreds of thousands of hospitalizations, and tens of thousands of deaths.
Show Text Description Novel influenza viruses are always emerging Many kinds of influenza viruses spread in animals and are different from the 'seasonal' influenza viruses that normally spread in people.
Influenza can spread in animals, especially in wild birds and pigs.
A few animal influenza viruses can spread to people.
More cases of animal flu viruses can spread to people.
If a novel influenza virus spreads easily among people, and people have little immunity to it, a pandemic can occur.
Animal influenza viruses can spread to people from animals such as birds or pigs.
Show Text Description An influenza pandemic can emerge anywhere and globally Four influenza pandemics have occurred in the past 100 years.
The 1918-19 flu pandemic was the most severe: killing 675,000 Americans and 50 to 100 million people worldwide.
During a pandemic: medicine may be in short supply vaccines may not be readily available hospitals may be overwhelmed schools and businesses may close Estimated U.S.
deaths from pandemic flu.
Show Text Description CDC protects Americans from influenza Monitoring Influenza Viruses Works with domestic and global health partners to monitor both human and animal influenza viruses to know what influenza viruses are circulating, where they are spreading, and what kind of illness they are causing.
Studying Influenza Viruses in the Laboratory Studies both human and animal influenza viruses in the laboratory to better understand the characteristics of these viruses, including conducting genetic sequencing on more than 6,000 viruses each year.
Improving Testing and Diagnostic Tools Develops and distributes tests and supplies materials to state, local, territorial, and international laboratories to detect and characterize influenza viruses.
Leading Influenza Planning and Preparedness Supports state and local governments in preparing for the next influenza pandemic, including planning and leading pandemic exercises across all levels of government.
CDC works with the World Health Organization (WHO) and partner countries in pandemic planning efforts.
Domestically, CDC supports the development and use of community mitigation measures and medical countermeasures to minimize the impact of a pandemic.
Supporting Vaccine Development Assists global and domestic experts who choose which viruses to include in seasonal vaccine production for each year’s vaccine and guides prioritization of pandemic vaccine development.
CDC develops candidate viruses that manufacturers use to make flu vaccines.
CDC tracks and monitors seasonal influenza vaccine distribution.
Funding and Technical Assistance Provides direct support to state, local, and territorial public health departments for influenza surveillance and laboratory work.
Globally, CDC supports more than 50 countries to build surveillance and laboratory capacity to find emerging influenza threats and respond to them.
Improving Tools to Prevent and Control Evaluates the effectiveness of vaccines and drugs and updates recommendations on these.
Providing Timely and Accurate Information Informs health care providers and public about influenza prevention and control measures.
CDC works with businesses, schools, communities, and others to plan for and address influenza threats.
Background Influenza Planning and Response Factsheet Download this information to print and share.
Download CDC programs use scientific expertise and resources to protect the United States from the continuing threat posed by seasonal influenza (flu) and pandemic flu with the following activities: Monitoring and assessing influenza viruses and illness.
Building and supporting surveillance and response capacity.
Improving vaccines and other interventions.
Applying research to enhance science-based prevention & control policies.
Low Resolution Video Resources CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response ON THIS PAGE Influenza is always changing Novel influenza viruses are always emerging An influenza pandemic can emerge anywhere and globally CDC protects Americans from influenza Background Resources RELATED PAGES About Pandemic Flu What CDC Does About Novel Flu: Outbreak Investigations VIEW ALL Pandemic Flu What CDC Does About Novel Flu: Outbreak Investigations SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Recommendations and Reports October 26, 1990 / 39(RR-14);1-13 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Recommendations for Collection of Laboratory Specimens Associated with Outbreaks of Gastroenteritis This report was prepared by: Judy F.
Lew, MD Charles W.
LeBaron, MD Roger I.
Glass, MD Tom Torok, MD Patricia M.
Griffin, MD Joy G.
Wells, MS Dennis D.
Juranek, DVM Suzanne P.
Wahlquist, MS Summary Recent discoveries have implicated a number of "new" (i.e., previously unrecognized) infectious agents as important causes of outbreaks of gastroenteritis.
Unfortunately, the ability to detect these agents in an outbreak can be limited by two factors: the lack of appropriate assays--many of which are still in developmental stages and are not readily available to clinical laboratories, and 2) inadequately or improperly collected specimens.
At CDC, many newly developed assays are being used for research and for outbreak investigations.
The information in this report is especially intended for public health agencies that collaborate with CDC in investigating outbreaks of gastroenteritis.
The report provides an update on guidelines and recommendations for the proper collection of specimens to be sent to CDC, gives general background information concerning some recently discovered pathogens, lists some of the tests available at CDC, and provides a list of CDC contacts.* The guidelines and the general information provided on causes of outbreaks of gastroenteritis can be also used by public health workers for investigations when specific testing is available and appropriate.
I.INTRODUCTION New diagnostic laboratory techniques as well as modifications of standard ones have been used by investigators to identify viral, bacterial, and parasitic agents of outbreaks of gastroenteritis.
Recently discovered causative agents associated with such outbreaks include the Norwalk-like agents, astrovirus, calicivirus, enteric adenovirus, enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli, Cryptosporidium, and Isospora belli.
Use of direct electron microscopy (EM), coupled with immunologic techniques (e.g., immune EM and enzyme immunoassays (EIAs)) and serologic studies, has enhanced understanding of viruses as a major cause of gastroenteritis.
Bacteria and parasites continue to be recognized as important causes of diarrhea worldwide.
Use of EIAs, tissue culture, molecular probes, and the polymerase chain reaction has improved the diagnosis of diarrhea caused by bacteria, and special concentrating and staining techniques have improved the process of detecting parasites such as Cryptosporidium and I.
To ensure that these diagnostic advances can be used most effectively, earlier recommendations for collecting stool specimens must be updated.
Because appropriate specimen-collection methods for viral, bacterial, and parasitic agents differ, the sections below are divided into guidelines by category of agent.
PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTING SPECIMENS Stool (See Table 1) General guidelines Timing.
Begin collecting stool specimens immediately after being notified of an outbreak, since delay may impede identification of the causative agent.
To permit diagnosis of certain viral agents, specimens must be collected during the first 48 hours of illness.
Collect diarrheal stool samples from at least 10 ill persons (assuming that at least that number are involved in the outbreak).
For outbreaks thought to be of viral origin, collect large-volume stool specimens (at least a urine cupful).
Methods for collection and storage Viruses.
Place each diarrheal stool specimen, of as large a quantity as can be obtained (preferably, at least 10 cc), in a leak-proof, clean, dry container, and refrigerate at 4 C.
Instructing patients to catch stool specimens in plastic kitchen wrap draped across the back half of the toilet under the toilet seat may facilitate collection of stool specimens.
Do not freeze specimens if EM examination is anticipated.
Collect at least two rectal swabs or swabs of fresh stools from each patient and place swabs in refrigerated (i.e., chilled 1-2 hours before use) Cary-Blair transport medium.
When obtaining swabs from a patient, first moisten each rectal swab in the holding medium, insert the moistened swab into the rectum 1 to 1-1/2 inches, rotate the swab gently, and then return the swab to the same tube of holding medium.
Try to ensure that visible fecal material is present on each swab.
After obtaining the two fecal swabs, insert both into the same tube of medium and push them to the bottom of the tube.
Break off and discard the excess top portion of the swab sticks.
IMPORTANT: Refrigerate or freeze tubes after specimens are placed in them.
If specimens will be examined within 48 hours after collection, they can be refrigerated; however, if specimens must be held longer than 48 hours, freeze them as soon as possible after they are collected.
Although storage in an ultra-low freezer (-70 C) is preferable, storage in a home-type freezer (if it is properly set at -20 C) is acceptable for short periods.
Mix fresh bulk-stool specimens thoroughly with each of two preservatives, 10% formalin and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) fixative,* at a ratio of 1 part stool to 3 parts preservative.
If there is a delay in obtaining the preservatives, refrigerate untreated stool specimens at 4 C (do not freeze) for up to 48 hours.
Once preserved, the specimens can be stored and transported at room temperature or refrigerated.
Do not freeze.
Transportation (specimen handling) Refrigerated specimens.
Enclose each specimen in a secure container (e.g., urine cup, Cary-Blair medium tube), to which has been affixed a waterproof label.
Place this container in a waterproof bag with tissue, towels, or other blotting material to absorb any leakage.
Batch specimen containers, pack with ice or frozen refrigerant packs in an insulated box, and send by overnight mail scheduled to be delivered during business hours on a weekday, if possible.
Submit a list of specimens and a CDC Identification Form 50.34 for each specimen.
Frozen specimens (for bacterial testing only).
So that they remain frozen, ship frozen specimens on dry ice.
Use enough dry ice to keep the specimen frozen until it is received at the laboratory that will process it (i.e., enough dry ice to fill one-third to one-half of the shipping container).
Do not allow glass tubes to be in direct contact with dry ice; place a layer of paper or other material between the tubes and the dry ice.
To prevent excess exposure of specimens to carbon dioxide, tighten the screw caps on the Cary-Blair tubes and seal them with electrical tape, or seal the specimens in a plastic bag within the container of dry ice.
Serum General guidelines Timing of collection of specimens.
Submit two serum specimens (an acute-phase specimen and a convalescent-phase specimen) for each patient thought to have illness caused by viruses or bacteria.
Obtain the acute-phase serum specimen as close to the time of onset of illness as possible (at most, within a week after onset of illness) and the convalescent-phase serum specimen 3-4weeks after the onset of illness.
If a viral agent is suspected, for optimal test results, specimens should be collected within 6 weeks after onset of illness.
Source(s) of specimens.
If possible, obtain paired serum specimens from the same 10 patients from whom stool samples were obtained.
Ten paired serum specimens obtained from well persons can serve as control specimens in certain studies.
Methods for collection and storage Collect blood specimens from adults (15 ml) and from children (3 ml) in tubes that do not contain anticoagulants (usually red-top tubes).
Centrifuge the blood and send only the serum for analysis.
If no centrifuge is available, store the blood specimens in a refrigerator until a clot has formed; then remove the serum and pipette it into an empty sterile tube (using a Pasteur pipette).
Refrigerate the tubes of spun serum until they are shipped.
Refrigerate, but do not freeze, tubes containing unspun serum.
Transportation Ship serum specimens either refrigerated or frozen.
If the clotting technique described above is used to obtain the serum, ship the specimens refrigerated so that they can be centrifuged before they are frozen.
Specimens can be refrigerated by placing them in an insulated box with ice or frozen refrigerant packs.
Frozen specimens can be kept frozen by shipping them on dry ice.
Batch the specimens and send by overnight mail, scheduled to arrive at the laboratory during business hours on a weekday, if possible.
NOTE: Certain specimens of food, water, or ice can be submitted for testing if they are epidemiologically implicated as the vehicle of the disease.
However, because of the technical difficulties and the low yield associated with such studies, only send such specimens to CDC after staff in the appropriate laboratory have agreed.
Refrigerate specimens for viral and parasitic diagnostic testing at 4 C, and freeze specimens for bacterial diagnostics at -70 C.
PATHOGENS OF DIARRHEA Viruses In the 1970s, specific viruses were first identified as infectious agents of diarrhea when transmission EM was used to detect viruses directly in fecal specimens.
Agents such as group A rotavirus and Norwalk virus are now well-known causes of gastroenteritis (See Table 2).
However, little is known about many other viral agents, including the group B and C rotaviruses, Norwalk-like agents (i.e., small, round, structured viruses), astroviruses, caliciviruses, enteric adenoviruses, pestiviruses, enteric coronaviruses, and picobirnaviruses.
Group B rotavirus has been associated with large outbreaks of diarrhea among adults in China, but little is known about its effect in other parts of the world.
Group C rotavirus has been reported worldwide in association with sporadic diarrhea and with outbreaks of diarrheal illness in the United Kingdom and Japan.
The Norwalk-like family of viruses has been associated with disease both among adults and school-age children.
Astroviruses and caliciviruses have also been implicated in outbreaks of diarrhea affecting both children and adults, particularly in such closed community settings as hospitals, orphanages, and nursing homes.
Enteric adenoviruses can cause infections among immunocompromised patients, and studies suggest that these agents may be the second most common viral cause (after rotavirus) of diarrheal illness that results in the hospitalization of children.
These viruses are most likely spread by fecal-oral transmission.
However, shellfish (e.g., oysters, clams, and cockles) have been documented as vehicles for outbreaks of gastroenteritis caused by Norwalk-like agents, astrovirus, and calicivirus.
Most patients shed these viruses in the greatest amounts during the acute phase of illness and up to 48-72 hours post-recovery.
Patients have been reported to shed enteric adenoviruses for a longer period after recovery, and immunocompromised hosts have been noted to shed viruses for months.
Airborne transmission has been suggested for some members of the Norwalk family of viruses and for rotavirus.
Direct zoonotic transmission has not been reported.
Outbreaks of viral gastroenteritis are characterized by a short incubation period: 24-48 hours when the agent is one of the Norwalk family of agents or a rotavirus and 24-96 hours when the agent is an astrovirus or a calicivirus.
Enteric infection with adenovirus can involve a longer incubation period--i.e., 7-8 days.
Non-bloody diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and fever are common symptoms of viral gastroenteritis.
Vomiting can be pronounced and can occur with or without diarrhea.
Symptoms generally last for 2-5 days, although the duration of diarrhea associated with enteric adenoviruses is usually longer (7-10 days).
The epidemiology of these agents has not yet been well-defined.
The development and application of new immunoassays should provide new information about these agents and promote the development of effective prevention and treatment regimens.
Bacteria Many different bacteria cause outbreaks of diarrhea (See Table 3).
Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium perfringens are common pathogens that cause illness when their toxin is ingested.
Other common pathogens include Campylobacter, Salmonella, and Shigella.
Although E.
coli has long been known to cause diarrhea, the recent identification of new strains suggests that this pathogen may be a more important cause of diarrheal illness than was previously recognized.
Diarrheagenic E.
coli organisms are currently categorized into four groups: enterotoxigenic E.
coli (ETEC), enteropathogenic E.
coli (EPEC), enteroinvasive E.
coli (EIEC), and enterohemorrhagic E.
coli (EHEC).
ETEC and EPEC are important causes of diarrhea for infants and children in developing countries.
Neither group of E.
coli is often associated with outbreaks of diarrhea in the United States, although EPEC was responsible for nursery-based epidemics of diarrhea that resulted in high mortality in this country in the 1940s.
ETEC remains an important cause of travelers' diarrhea.
EIEC has also been identified in the United States only rarely.
In contrast, EHEC (of which E.
coli 0157:H7 is the prototype) is frequently reported in this country.
coli 0157:H7 was first recognized as a cause of human illness during an outbreak of hemorrhagic colitis in 1982, and it is now known to be the major cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome in the United States.
Cattle appear to be a common reservoir for this organism, and outbreaks have been traced to ground beef and raw milk.
The typical clinical manifestations of diarrheagenic E.
coli are profuse, watery, cholera-like diarrhea (ETEC), dysentery-like symptoms (EIEC), and grossly bloody diarrhea (EHEC).
Infection with EPEC is characterized by prolonged, relapsing episodes of watery diarrhea, although its clinical features, like those of the other diarrheagenic E.
coli, can vary greatly.
coli-related illness typically lasts longer than most diarrhea caused by viruses, and 5-7 days of illness is not unusual.
Identification of these E.
coli organisms can require specialized laboratory techniques such as serotyping and specific toxin-detection tests that may not be routinely available in hospital laboratories.
Parasites Entamoeba histolytica, Giardia lamblia, Balantidium coli, Cryptosporidium, and Isospora belli are parasitic diarrheal pathogens with a worldwide distribution.
All five pathogens are known to cause outbreaks of diarrhea in the United States (See Table 4).
With the use of new concentrating and staining techniques, investigators have recently shown Cryptosporidium and belli to be important pathogens in the United States.
Cryptosporidium has been found in specimens from 3% to 13% of persons with diarrhea who have recently arrived from developing countries.
Because Cryptosporiduim has been associated with outbreaks of diarrhea in child day-care centers, it may be an important pathogen in this setting.
Cryptosporidium, like I.
belli, is a common source of infection for male homosexuals.
belli appears to be a less common cause of diarrhea, although it can cause severe diarrhea for immunocompromised patients.
belli has also been associated with outbreaks of diarrhea in some developing countries and in nursing homes in developed countries.
Fecal-oral spread through contaminated food and water has led to outbreaks of diarrhea caused by Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica, and Cryptosporidium.
Person-to-person transmission has been documented for Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica, belli, and Cryptosporidium.
Cryptosporidium is a zoonotic agent, and many different animals are known to excrete Cryptosporidium cysts that can potentially infect humans.
belli is not a zoonotic agent; it is the only Isospora species that is presently known to infect humans.
In general, the incubation period, duration of illness, and period of pathogen excretion are usually longer in association with diarrheal infections caused by parasites than with diarrhea caused by viruses or bacteria.
For most patients, the incubation period for Cryptosporidium-related illness is approximately 5 days.
Symptoms include transient diarrhea with profuse watery stools, abdominal cramps, and occasional fever and nausea with or without vomiting.
The duration of illness is usually 3 days to 3 weeks, but illness has been documented to last for greater than 1 month.
For immunocompromised patients, clinical features can be quite marked; the illness can become progressively more severe and can include signs of malabsorption and of fluid and electrolyte loss.
Although less is known about the clinical manifestations of illness caused by I.
belli, current information suggests that the illness it causes is similar to that caused by Cryptosporidium.
DETECTION OF PATHOGENS* Viruses General guidelines Some of the tests presently available are direct EM; immune EM; polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; enzyme immune assays for rotavirus (groups A and B), enteric adenovirus, and astrovirus antigens; a serologic enzyme immune assay for Norwalk virus; and polymerase chain reaction for rotavirus serotyping.
EIAs for calicivirus antigens and EIAs for astrovirus antibodies are being developed.
Many viruses--including rotaviruses, adenoviruses, astroviruses, caliciviruses, the Norwalk virus, and other small, round viruses--can be detected with EM.
Because the electron microscope scans a field containing a millionth of a milliliter of stool, the specimen must contain at least a million particles per milliliter for one particle of virus to be detected.
In order to assure that samples contain the highest concentration of virus possible, specimens must be collected as close to the onset of illness as possible, generally within the first 48-72 hours.
Watery stool specimens are most likely to contain visible particles of virus.
Freezing may alter or obliterate the morphologic characteristics of some viruses; therefore, samples should be kept refrigerated at 4 C and should not be frozen if EM examination is anticipated.
Because most enteric viruses (e.g., calicivirus, the Norwalk agents, and the non-group A rotaviruses) cannot be cultivated, reagents for diagnostic tests are limited.
In fact, because human stool samples are the basic source of antigen and virus, the bulk collection of specimens is always encouraged.
Proper collection and storage of large-volume specimens will facilitate EM examination and allow for concentration methods that enhance the likelihood of successful testing.
Antibodies to viruses usually begin to rise the first week after onset of illness, peak by the fourth week, and can fall by the sixth week (particularly for Norwalk agents).
Acute-phase serum specimens should be collected in the first week of illness, and convalescent-phase serum specimens from the third to the fourth week after onset of illness (not later than the sixth week if the suspected pathogen is a Norwalk agent).
Since many persons have preexisting antibodies to some of the viral agents, a single convalescent-phase serum sample is generally of little diagnostic value.
At present, determination of the cause of outbreaks of viral gastroenteritis relies heavily on assays of serologic response; paired serum specimens should therefore be submitted for testing associated with all such outbreaks.
A fourfold rise in specific antibody titer between acute-and convalescent-phase serum samples is accepted as diagnostic of a recent infection.
Bacteria General guidelines Tests available for identification of organisms include isolation procedures for Salmonella, Shigella, Campylobactor, Vibrio, Yersinia enterocolitica, Aeromonas hydrophilia, Plesiomonas shigelloides, Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus, and Escherichia coli, as well as serodiagnostic assays for Salmonella typhi, Campylobacter, Vibrio cholerae, and E.
coli 0157:H7.
When no other pathogen is found, serotyping of E.
coli recovered from ill persons and from appropriately chosen controls can identify previously unidentified E.
coli pathogens.
In addition, polymerase chain reaction for Shiga-like toxin-producing E.
coli is presently being developed.
Other diagnostic tests available are pathogenicity assays; ELISAs or DNA probes for detection of EPEC, EIEC, ETEC, and EHEC (including E.
coli 0157:H7); and antimicrobial susceptibility testing, plasmid profiles, and other subtyping methods to determine the relatedness of enteric bacteria.
A pathogenic bacterium can be identified by isolating the organism in culture, by serotyping, or by identifying a characteristic marker for virulence.
Fresh stool specimens should always be used when possible to ensure that fastidious organisms and toxins that decompose easily are detected before they degenerate.
Expedient refrigeration of specimens is important since bacteria can easily be overgrown by competing organisms in stool specimens left at room temperature for greater than 4 hours.
If testing must be delayed beyond 48 hours after the specimen is collected, the specimen should be frozen to retard the overgrowth of bacteria.
Since most bacterial pathogens can be cultured from appropriately acquired rectal swab specimens, rectal swabs or swabs of fresh stools are preferred to bulk stool specimens.
This method of collection also facilitates storage and transport.
Specific antibody testing may be possible for some bacterial enteric agents such as Shigella.
As is true for viral infections, antibody titers to bacterial agents generally rise by the end of the first week after onset of illness and peak by 3-4 weeks.
A fourfold rise in specific antibody titer is accepted as diagnostic of a recent infection.
Parasites General guidelines Some tests available for formalin-preserved specimens include the formalin-ethyl acetate concentration, which is used for both helminths and protozoa, and the kinyoun carbol-fuchsin(modified acid-fast)-stained slide, which is used for Cryptosporidium.
PVA-preserved specimens are used to prepare Trichrome-stained slides and examined for protozoa.
Parasites are usually detected and identified with microscopy of fresh or appropriately preserved stool specimen (although parasites can sometimes be grown on special media).
Fresh specimens are needed for direct microscopy because trophozoites are fragile and may not survive environmental stress.
The PVA and formalin fixatives preserve the morphology of cysts and trophozoites in stool specimens for diagnostic testing.
Unlike outbreaks of gastroenteritis due to bacteria or viruses, an outbreak of parasitic diarrheal illness can sometimes be identified with a convalescent-phase serum specimen only.
However, it is sometimes necessary to have both acute and convalescent serum specimens to make a definitive diagnosis.
CDC Contacts for Consultation Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) Officer Viral Gastroenteritis Unit Respiratory and Enteric Virus Branch Division of Viral and Rickettsial Diseases Center for Infectious Diseases Centers for Disease Control Mailstop G-04, SB47, Bldg.
7 Atlanta, GA 30333 (404) 639-3040 EIS Officer Enteric Diseases Branch Division of Bacterial Diseases Center for Infectious Diseases Centers for Disease Control Mailstop C-09 Bldg.
5428 Atlanta, GA 30333 (404) 639-3753 EIS Officer Epidemiology Activity Parasitic Diseases Branch Division of Parasitic Diseases Center for Infectious Diseases Centers for Disease Control Mailstop F-13 Bldg.
23, Chamblee Atlanta, GA 30333 (404) 488-4178 SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY Balows A, Hausler Jr.
WJ, Lennette EH, eds.
Laboratory diagnosis of infectious diseases: principles and practice.
New York: Springer-Verlag, Inc., 1988.
Benenson AS, ed.
Control of communicable diseases in man.
Washington, DC: American Public Health Association, 1985.
Ciba Foundation.
Novel diarrhea viruses.
In: Ciba foundation symposium.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1987:128.
Epidemiology of diarrheal disease: infectious diarrhea.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 1988; 2(3): 557-70.
Feigin RD, Cherry JD, eds.
Gastrointestinal infections: textbook of pediatric infectious diseases.
Philadelphia: WB Saunders Co., 1987.
Guerrant, RL.
Gastrointestinal infections and food poisoning.
In: Mandel GL, Douglas Jr RG, Bennet JE, eds.
Principles and practice of infectious diseases.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1985:635-46.
Guerrant RL, Hughes JM.
Nausea, vomiting, and non-inflammatory diarrhea.
In: Mandell GL, Douglas Jr.
RG, Bennet JE, eds.
Principles and practice of infectious diseases.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1985:646-55.
Food poisoning.
In: Mandell GL, Douglas Jr.
RG, Bennet JE, eds.
Principles and practice of infectious diseases.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1985:680-91.
Kapikian AZ, Chanock RM.
Viral gastroenteritis.
In: Evans AS, ed.
Viral infections of humans: epidemiology and control.
New York: Plenum Medical Book Co., 1989.
Manson-Bahr PEC, Bell DR.
Diarrhea caused by protozoa.
In: Manson's tropical diseases.
London: Bailliere Tindall, 1987.
Penaranda ME, Cubitt WD, Sinarachatanant P, Taylor DN, Linkanonsakul S, Saif L, Glass RI.
Group C rotavirus infections in patients with diarrhea in Thailand, Nepal, and England.
J Infect Dis 1989;160(3):392-7.
Pickering LK, Cleary TG.
Approach to patients with gastrointestinal infections and food poisoning.
In: Feigin RD, Cherry JD, eds.
Textbook of pediatric infectious diseases.
Philadelphia: WB Saunders Co., 1987:622-51.
Tanowitz HB, Weiss LM, Wittner M.
Diagnosis and treatment of protozoan diarrheas.
Am J Gastroenterol.
1988;82(4):339-50.
Diagnosis of infectious diarrheal diseases: infectious diarrhea.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 1988; 2(3): 747-74.
*Testing at CDC is for research purposes and/or outbreak evaluations in collaboration with state and local health departments.
Specimens should not be sent to CDC without prior discussion a) first, with the appropriate state health department and b) second, with the appropriate CDC laboratory.
If an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurs and CDC's assistance is needed, early contact with appropriate persons at CDC for information about specimen collection is strongly encouraged.
*Preservatives are available in commercial kits.
*Testing done at CDC is for research and/or outbreak situations.
Contact the appropriate CDC staff member(s) to discuss any questions concerning outbreaks of gastroenteritis or methods of collecting specimens.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Infectious Diseases Laboratories EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH Public Health Submit Specimens to CDC CSTOR Web Portal Specimens Submission Form Test Directory CDC Drug Service VIEW ALL View All Submitting Specimens to CDC OCT.
1, 2025 ABOUT CDC accepts specimens from state public health laboratories and other federal agencies for analysis.
State health departments and other federal agencies may submit specimens for reference testing to CDC.
Private healthcare providers and institutions may now submit specimens directly to CDC with approval from the local state health department laboratory.
What's new Updated 10/1/2025 – During an absence of annual appropriations, CDC will continue essential laboratory testing.
Testing for urgent public health needs and CLIA reference laboratory services for critical patient specimens will remain available.
Though some services may be delayed or unavailable, all specimens received by CDC will be accessioned and stored in their appropriate conditions.
For questions related to submitting specimens for infectious disease testing, please email CDC_ID_lab_info@cdc.gov.
For questions related to CDC Specimen Test Order and Reporting (CSTOR), please contact CSTOR@cdc.gov.
For questions outside of normal business hours, call the CDC Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at 770-488-7100.
Updated 9/29/2025 — We have upgraded our CDC 50.34 Specimen Submission Form and supporting documentation.
For instructions on how to access the upgraded 50.34 Form, please visit the Specimen Submission Form page.
Users should review Test directory updates prior to sending specimens to CDC for testing.
CDC accepts specimens from state public health laboratories and other federal agencies for analysis.
As of July 2024, private healthcare providers and institutions may submit specimens directly to CDC with local state health department laboratory (state, county, city) approval.
Specimen submission methods Specimen management activities at CDC include the receipt, categorization, and distribution of specimens from public health facilities to CDC laboratories for reference diagnostic testing and research studies.
State-of-the-art technology is used to provide data and information summaries that are crucial in the assessment of public health trends and epidemic dynamics on a national scale.
There are currently two methods for submitters to submit specimens to CDC for testing: The CDC Test Order and Reporting (CSTOR) Web Portal (preferred) The CDC 50.34 Specimen Submission Form Who may submit specimens State health departments and other federal agencies may submit specimens for reference testing to CDC.
With state health department approval, private healthcare providers, hospitals, and laboratories may submit specimens directly to CDC via the CDC Specimen Test Order and Reporting (CSTOR) Web Portal.
All specimen submissions to CDC must receive approval by the individual state health department, unless specific tests have been pre-approved in CSTOR.
If a local health department is unable to determine where and how to submit a specimen, they should forward the specimen to their state health department.
State and Local Health Departments State and Territorial Public Health Officials State and Territorial Public Health Laboratories Further reading Test Directory Specimen Submission Form Submit and Ship Specimens CDC Specimen Test Order and Reporting (CSTOR) Web Portal ON THIS PAGE What's new Specimen submission methods Who may submit specimens Further reading SOURCES PRINT SHARE Infectious Diseases Laboratories CDC's Infectious Diseases Laboratories site provides guidelines to state public health laboratories and other federal agencies for submitting specimens to CDC for analysis.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All Public Health MARCH 27, 2024 Current Assessment and Pandemic Preparedness WHAT TO KNOW The United States is not currently experiencing an influenza pandemic.
However, the government continually monitors and assesses pandemic threats and prepares for one.
The Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) is used to assess the potential pandemic risk.
Overview It is impossible to predict when the next pandemic will occur or its impact.
There are ongoing efforts by the Federal Government to monitor and assess pandemic threats and prepare for an influenza pandemic.
Novel influenza A viruses with pandemic potential include Asian lineage avian influenza A (H5N1) and (H7N9) viruses.
These viruses have all been evaluated using the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) to assess their potential pandemic risk.
Because we cannot predict how bad a future pandemic will be, advance planning is needed at the national, state and local level.
Whether the planning is for a government entity, a business, school, a community-based organization, or health care system, all planning efforts should take into consider multiple scenarios of a pandemic (e.g.
moderate, severe, or very severe) so that they can be ready to respond quickly and take the appropriate measures to continue daily operations.
Additional resources can be found on the Pandemic Planning Resources and Archived Pandemic Planning Resources web pages.
For seasonal influenza activity and surveillance information visit the Flu Activity & Surveillance page.
RELATED PAGES Monitoring for Influenza Viruses IRAT Results IRAT Report Summaries National Pandemic Strategy Interim Updated Planning Guidance VIEW ALL Pandemic Flu IRAT Results SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All What CDC Does During Novel Flu: Outbreak Investigations For Everyone SEPT.
23, 2025 PURPOSE CDC works with state and local health departments to investigate human outbreaks with novel flu viruses (i.e., flu viruses that do not normally circulate in people) and animal outbreaks caused by unusual or concerning flu viruses.
Investigations CDC takes novel flu outbreaks seriously because of their potential to harm large numbers of people.
CDC scientists become concerned when: People are infected with animal flu viruses, including swine (pig) and avian (bird) flu viruses, or people are infected with a human flu virus that changed abruptly and significantly, resulting in a new human seasonal influenza A virus (called a novel flu infection in people).
Flu viruses are found in animals that are not the usual host for that virus – for example, when avian influenza A(H7N2) viruses were found in cats in a New York City animal shelter; Specific influenza viruses of special public health concern are detected– for example, when highly pathogenic avian influenza H5 and H7 viruses are found in U.S.
KEEP READING Avian Influenza Type A Viruses When any of these scenarios happens, CDC works with state public health officials on a public health investigation and also coordinates with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and state animal health officials as appropriate.
In the case of novel flu, the goals of an outbreak investigation are to identify the source of the infection in people, to determine if person-to-person spread of the virus is happening, and to slow or stop the spread of the virus in people and sometimes animals.
Epidemiologists, sometimes called "disease detectives", do this type of investigative work.
Disease detectives use various methods to figure out the "anatomy of an outbreak." For influenza, this might include: Interviewing people who report illness.
Asking that all people reporting to a healthcare provider (physicians' offices, health clinics, hospitals, and other health care facilities) with influenza-like illness (ILI) be evaluated for influenza and that they be reported to the local public health department.
Interviewing people who have tested positive for flu.
Evaluating the capacity for person-to-person spread of the virus in question through contact tracing, which is the identification and diagnosis of people who may have come into contact with an infected person.
Investigating reports of exposure to animals known to carry influenza viruses, such as pigs and birds.
Monitoring responders to animal influenza outbreaks, such as people working in outbreaks among pigs and poultry.
Following are a few examples of this investigative process showing how CDC takes quick action to respond to novel flu outbreaks in order to help stop or slow the spread of disease.
Swine/Variant Flu Outbreaks: When a flu virus that normally spreads in pigs but not people is found in people, it is called a "variant influenza virus." In the past, CDC received reports of approximately one human infected with influenza viruses that usually are found in swine every one to two years, but beginning in 2012, there was a jump in the number of these cases being reported to CDC.
The majority of variant flu virus infections in the United States have occurred among people attending an agricultural fair where they were exposed to infected pigs or their contaminated environments.
Agricultural fairs are large community events where people have the opportunity to show and sell animals, such as pigs, that they have raised.
Large numbers of people and animals attend agricultural fairs.
These settings provide an opportunity for people to come in close contact with pigs, some of which may be infected with influenza viruses, and their environment, which may become contaminated with influenza viruses when ill pigs cough or sneeze.
Below are examples of variant flu outbreaks: 2012 Multi-State Outbreak: From July to September 2012, an outbreak of influenza A(H3N2) variant virus (or H3N2v) infection involving 10 states resulted in 309 infections reported among attendees of agricultural fairs where swine were present.
CDC worked closely with state and territorial health departments to investigate each human infection so that the risk of infection could be more fully understood and appropriate public health measures could be taken to minimize the chance that other people might get sick.
The Ohio Department of Health requested CDC's short-term assistance during this outbreak (called an Epi-Aid).
CDC staff joined the state health department staff and others to support their efforts to: Determine the extent of the outbreak and the severity of illness among people infected; Identify any instances of person-to-person spread; and Examine possible risk factors for infection.
At a single agricultural fair in Ohio, CDC and state public health officials identified 20 confirmed and 94 probable cases of (H3N2)v virus infection.
No evidence of human-to-human spread was found.
CDC's risk analysis contributed to the development of a new recommendation that people at high risk for developing serious flu complications, including children younger than 5 years old, people 65 years and older, pregnant women, and people with certain chronic medical conditions (for example asthma, other lung diseases, diabetes, heart disease, weakened immune systems, and neurological or neurodevelopmental conditions) avoid pigs and swine barns at fairs.
SEE ALSO Investigation of an Outbreak of Variant Influenza A(H3N2) Virus Infection Associated With an Agricultural Fair-Ohio, August 2012 2016 Michigan Outbreak: In August 2016, an influenza H3N2v virus infection identified in a child who exhibited pigs during an agricultural fair in Michigan also resulted in a CDC Epi-Aid investigation.
A team of CDC staff, including Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officers, traveled to Michigan to look for additional variant flu infections among people exhibiting pigs at county fairs.
They tested the use of a "text-illness monitoring" system (called "TIM") to look for potential variant virus infections among swine exhibitors and other members of their households.
TIM is a text-based illness monitoring system originally developed as a way to more easily remind outbreak responders and other potentially exposed people to report any signs and symptoms of illness to public health personnel.
The CDC team used this opportunity to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of using TIM for future novel flu virus outbreaks.
The CDC team piloted the use of TIM at nine agricultural fairs involving an estimated 1,052 swine exhibitors.
They used TIM to conduct active surveillance of 392 people in 87 households for signs and symptoms of illness and potential variant virus infections.
Of the 392 people who signed up for active monitoring, 22 reported an illness to their health department through the TIM system.
Nine of those people sought medical care and five of them were tested.
Of those tested, two tested positive for (H3N2)v.
Using a text-based system for active surveillance helped the team identify people with infections that may not have been identified otherwise.
KEEP READING Outbreak of Influenza A(H3N2) Variant Virus Infections Among Persons Attending Agricultural Fairs Housing Infected Swine — Michigan and Ohio, July–August 2016 Avian Flu Outbreaks: Every so often, avian influenza A viruses (bird flu) that naturally occur in wild aquatic birds can infect other birds, domestic poultry, or other animals, causing bird flu outbreaks.
In some instances, avian influenza A virus outbreaks in poultry have led to sporadic infections in people followed by illness and death in some circumstances.
In the United States, avian influenza A virus outbreaks in dairy cattle have caused some human infections, resulting in mostly mild illness.
Avian influenza A viruses spread mainly from animals to people through direct contact with infected animals or their contaminated environments.
The spread of avian influenza A viruses from one ill person to another has rarely been reported.
However, finding an avian influenza A virus in an unexpected animal like dairy cattle and subsequent transmission to a human is always concerning because there is little or no immunity to these viruses in the human population, and it's possible these viruses could change to be able to spread more efficiently between people.
These events must be rapidly and thoroughly investigated to better understand the risk to humans.
KEEP READING Bird Flu in Animals and People: Causes and How It Spreads Below are examples of avian flu outbreaks: 2014-2015 Multi-State Outbreak: From December 2014 through mid-June 2015, highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N2) and A(H5N8) viruses were reported in U.S.
domestic poultry (backyard and commercial flocks), captive wild birds, and wild birds.
Throughout that time, HPAI A(H5) virus outbreaks were reported in 21 states across the United States.
No human infections with these A(H5N2) and A(H5N8) viruses were detected in the United States; however, similar viruses infected people in other countries, causing serious illness and death in some cases.
CDC provided recommendations and guidance to clinicians and public health professionals in the United States on appropriate follow-up, preventive treatment, testing, specimen collection and processing of specimens from patients.
2022 Multi-State Outbreak: During February 7 to September 3, 2022, HPAI A(H5N1) virus was first detected in wild birds across 45 U.S.
Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratory (USDA NVSL) confirmed H5N1 outbreaks in commercial poultry farms and backyard flocks in 39 states.
Among persons exposed to infected birds, HPAI A(H5) viral RNA was detected in one respiratory specimen from one person; similar human cases have been reported in other countries.
CDC recommended that state and local health departments actively monitor for 10 days following exposure for persons who did not wear recommended personal protective equipment (PPE) or experienced a breach in PPE.
KEEP READING Risk for Infection in Humans after Exposure to Birds Infected with Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus, United States, 2022 2024-2025 Multi-State Outbreak (Dairy cows, poultry, and other animals): In March 2024, HPAI A(H5N1) viruses were first detected in U.S.
dairy cattle, with ongoing spread in commercial poultry and wild birds, including backyard flocks.
As of August 1, 2025, 70 human cases have been reported—mostly among dairy and poultry workers—with one associated death involving backyard poultry/wild birds.
Most human infections were linked to animal exposure; no person-to-person transmission was identified, and the overall public health risk remains low.
CDC continues to coordinate with state and federal partners to assess risk, monitor for novel influenza virus activity, and provide public health guidance.
More information is available at CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response | Bird Flu | CDC.
KEEP READING H5 Viruses in the United States 2016 New York City Animal Shelter Outbreak: In December 2016, CDC was notified about an outbreak of avian influenza A(H7N2) virus in cats at a New York City (NYC) animal shelter.
Avian influenza A viruses had previously been detected in domestic cats.
CDC and New York state and local public health authorities conducted an investigation to identify any human infections associated with exposure to the infected cats and to ensure the virus wasn't spreading from person to person.
During this investigation, nearly 400 people who were exposed to the infected cats during the outbreak were screened or tested for A(H7N2) virus infection.
This work took on renewed urgency when a veterinarian who worked closely with the sick cats tested positive for A(H7N2) virus infection on Dec.
20, 2016, becoming the first known instance of cat-to-human transmission of flu and only the third human case of H7N2 bird flu in the United States.
The veterinarian experienced flu symptoms, including fever, sore throat, cough, and fatigue.
The course of illness was brief, mild and resolved without requiring hospitalization.
One additional human infection with A(H7N2) virus was identified by serological testing of blood specimens from exposed animal shelter workers.
This worker reported mild illness with fever, runny nose, and sore throat that resolved without requiring hospitalization.
KEEP READING Avian Influenza A(H7N2) Virus in Human Exposed to Sick Cats, New York, USA, 2016 2017 Multi-State Commercial Poultry Outbreak: In early March 2017, health officials reported highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) and low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) A(H7N9) viruses in poultry in Tennessee and subsequently in Alabama, Kentucky and Georgia.
No human infections associated with the outbreaks were detected.
CDC considered the risk to the public's health from this North American A(H7N9) virus outbreak to be low.
However, in the past there have been a small number of reported human infections with North American avian influenza A(H7) viruses.
Most infections were associated with poultry exposure and resulted in mild respiratory illness and/or conjunctivitis.
CDC worked closely with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA APHIS) and state and local agriculture and public health partners to minimize any human health risk posed by the bird flu outbreak, including steps CDC could take to reduce possible risk.
Continual monitoring of influenza viruses that spread between animals and people is critical so public health and animal health researchers can quickly identify emerging influenza viruses and assess their pandemic potential.
Note: During 2013-2019, related LPAI and HPAI A(H7N9) viruses caused more than 1500 human infections, nearly all in China, with more than 600 deaths, associated with direct or close exposure to infected poultry.
KEEP READING About Zoonotic Diseases Resources Swine/Variant influenza outbreaks Past Outbreaks ON THIS PAGE Investigations Swine/Variant Flu Outbreaks: Avian Flu Outbreaks: Resources RELATED PAGES About Pandemic Flu What CDC Is Doing VIEW ALL Pandemic Flu About Pandemic Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response JAN.
17, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW CDC, in collaboration with federal, state, and local partners, has been actively engaged in a coordinated response, responding to outbreaks of avian influenza A(H5N1) ("H5N1 bird flu") in the United States since early 2024.
These outbreaks in poultry, dairy cows, and other animals have caused sporadic human infections resulting primarily from exposures to infected animals.
These developments happened against a background of an ongoing avian influenza A(H5N1) epizootic—an event in which a disease is widespread in an animal population—in wild birds worldwide for years.
Introduction The current outbreak began in late March 2024 with the detection of H5N1 bird flu in dairy cows, followed by the first human infections at the beginning of April.
Over the course of more than nine months, there have been major response accomplishments in monitoring, testing, viral surveillance and characterization, worker protection, and animal-health collaboration.
This spotlight summarizes several key response accomplishments to date.
CDC continues to calibrate the public health response to H5N1 based on close monitoring of human and animal disease.
While CDC believes that the current H5N1 bird flu risk to the general public remains low, people with job- or recreation-related exposures to infected animals are at increased risk, especially when those exposures happen without appropriate protective measures in place, such as use of personal protective equipment.
These may include: Farmers and workers who work with infected animals or their byproducts Backyard bird flock owners Animal care workers (e.g., veterinarians, wild animal facility workers) Animal health and public health responders People with recreational exposure to animals (e.g., hunters, wild bird watchers) Furthermore, there is also the potential for broader risk from the virus depending on the degree to which the virus spreads, becomes more virulent and affects a wider population.
These are areas of focus for ongoing public health risk assessment as noted in a recent 'Spotlight'.
Background Ongoing virus circulation of H5N1 bird flu among wild birds for decades has resulted in spillover events to other animals, leading to periodic outbreaks among commercial poultry and backyard bird flocks and spreading to infect wild terrestrial and marine mammals, as well as domesticated animals.
Since 1997, more than 970 human infections with H5N1 bird flu have been reported from 24 countries.
The severity of illness associated with H5N1 bird flu has ranged from mild to severe, though approximately 50% of known cases worldwide have been fatal.
Since 2022, fewer than 100 human cases have been reported worldwide, including cases associated with the ongoing outbreak in the United States.
To date, human-to-human transmission of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus has not been identified in the United States, and limited, non-sustained human-to-human transmission has not been reported worldwide since 2007.
The Coordinated Response CDC, along with federal partners, including the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), National Institute of Health (NIH), and Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), as well as partners at the state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) levels, has been responding to the current H5N1 bird flu outbreak in the United States since the first detection in dairy cows in March 2024.
Capitalizing on existing epidemiological, surveillance, laboratory, and other capabilities the agency has built over decades of influenza preparedness work, CDC's efforts have focused on: Supporting STLT health departments with over $200M in funding to support their efforts to implement a One Health-approach to targeted surveillance on farms and to rapidly investigate suspected human cases.
Characterizing viruses in the laboratory and expeditiously sharing these data publicly.
Updating guidance for clinicians and at-risk populations (e.g., dairy cow and poultry farm workers) on prevention and mitigation strategies including use of personal protective equipment (PPE), clinical testing, and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with antiviral medication.
Conducting special laboratory studies to better understand virus characteristics.
Laying the groundwork for an H5 vaccination program, should one be needed.
Communicating with the public and coordinating with state and local health departments, industry associations, and worker groups.
Since the start of the response, CDC and its federal, STLT, and other partners have made significant strides toward better understanding the outbreak and implementing measures to prevent the spread of H5N1 bird flu, including from animals to humans.
Highlighted below are several areas of significant progress.
Surveillance and Case Identification Since early Spring 2024, CDC has used several approaches to track the progression of the H5 bird flu outbreak, including ongoing national flu surveillance for seasonal and novel viruses, efforts targeted toward H5 bird flu specifically, wastewater surveillance, and information from hospital emergency departments.
As of December 31, 2024, CDC and STLT partners have: Monitored more than 10,600 people following exposure to infected animals, testing more than 540 of those and identifying the majority of reported H5 bird flu cases (63) so far.
Tested more than 73,000 specimens for influenza A, identifying three additional cases of H5 bird flu.
Worked with private, academic, and STLT health department partners to detect and report avian influenza A(H5) viruses in wastewater, to guide public health planning and response efforts.
Leveraged syndromic surveillance systems to monitor for unusual trends, improve situational awareness, and inform decision making based on electronic data from multiple health care settings, including emergency departments (ED)—including influenza diagnoses and reported symptoms potentially related to influenza virus infections.
Prevention Strategies and Guidance CDC has increased outreach and education with farmworkers, employers, and advocacy groups to magnify message and strategies.
We have done this by coordinating with several trusted partners who can reach farmworkers and their employers, including CDC's rural health group, the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), USDA, the National Center for Farmworker Health, and foundations and associations working with local agricultural extensions.
In addition, CDC has a wide range of guidance emphasizing strategies people can take to help protect themselves from H5N1 bird flu.
CDC focused its guidance on groups at increased risk for H5N1 bird flu, especially those who work with infected animals or animal products (e.g., raw milk) and their employers.
Guidance for workers and employers includes recommendations for engineering and administrative controls and use of PPE.
These are based on CDC's current understanding of the exposure risk associated with different work tasks and settings, with PPE recommendations tailored to the exposure level.
Clinical Guidance CDC also has developed guidance for healthcare providers on how to evaluate and test patients exposed to avian influenza A(H5N1) and treat and manage patients with H5N1 bird flu.
Additional guidance focused on prevention measures in healthcare settings (infection prevention and control) and for people with known exposures (post exposure prophylaxis).
Symptom monitoring Specimen collection and laboratory testing Antiviral treatment Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir Infection prevention and control (e.g., within hospital settings) Post-exposure prophylaxis Medical Countermeasures CDC's current H5N1 bird flu recommendations include information about offering influenza antivirals (oseltamivir) for both treatment and as PEP to prevent infection, particularly among people who had unprotected exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1)-virus infected birds or other animals.
Asymptomatic people exposed to animals infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus who reported not wearing recommended PPE or who experienced a breach in recommended PPE and who tested positive for influenza A(H5) virus should be offered oseltamivir treatment (unless already receiving oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis).
At this time, there is no recommendation to vaccinate people against H5N1 bird flu.
As mentioned earlier in this spotlight, no human-to-human transmission has been identified, and CDC is not seeing genetic markers of antiviral resistance or significant mammalian adaptation of the A(H5) viruses (i.e., changes that would allow the virus to infect humans more readily).
However, CDC and partners in the U.S.
Government response to H5N1 bird flu are continuing to conduct preparedness activities, including planning for a potential H5 vaccination program, should it become necessary or appropriate based on an increase in the risk to public's health.
As a part of its ongoing pandemic preparedness activities over decades, CDC develops candidate vaccine viruses (CVV) for H5 and other avian influenza viruses and shares them with vaccine manufacturers and other stakeholders.
CVVs are used to produce influenza vaccines.
Having a CVV that protects against H5 bird flu in humans is an important step for being prepared for an H5 vaccination program, if one is needed.
Several H5 CVVs produced by CDC are nearly identical or, in many samples, identical to the hemagglutinin (HA) protein of recently detected clade 2.3.4.4b avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses in birds and mammals (and could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed, and would provide good protection against the clade 2.3.4.4b avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses circulating in birds.
These H5 CVVs have been shared with vaccine manufacturers and could be used to make vaccines if needed.
In the meantime, CDC recommends people with job- or recreational-related exposures to infected or potentially infected birds or mammals take recommended precautions to protect against H5N1 bird flu infection.
At this time, there is no role for H5 vaccination for the general population or other populations at increased risk given current transmission dynamics, overall disease severity, or virus characteristics.
CDC continues to monitor and assess the situation with every human case of H5 identified.
Laboratory Analysis and Tools A vital element of CDC's multipronged testing and analytic strategy to address the current H5N1 bird flu outbreak are its laboratory and epidemiologic resources, which support STLT public health laboratories by providing test kits and other resources and performing confirmatory testing and characterization of viruses.
Its laboratory assets allow CDC to: Enable early detection of H5N1 bird flu in humans and ensure wide availability of accurate testing tools, including through commercial laboratories Bolster public health laboratory capacity and enable a subset with demonstrated proficiency to test for H5 without the need for CDC confirmation Build on information revealed through the use of CDC specialized testing towards new and enhanced approaches.
Conduct genetic and virologic characterization of viruses for public health risk assessment and to ensure diagnostic tests, antivirals, and candidate vaccines remain effective.
Alongside these goals, CDC has worked with partners to develop laboratory guidance and resources, including: Guidance on specimen collection and testing of patients with suspected H5 bird flu infection Guidelines for laboratory biosafety in handling and processing of specimens associated with novel influenza viruses including avian influenza A(H5N1) Because influenza viruses are constantly changing, CDC performs routine analyses such as sequencing of A(H5N1) viruses to identify genetic changes that might allow for spread more easily to and between people or cause serious illness in people.
Sequence analysis and other laboratory tests allow CDC to assess the susceptibility of the virus to antivirals, accuracy of diagnostic assays, and neutralization of the virus by vaccine induced antibodies.
To date, no concerning changes have been identified in avian influenza A(H5N1) circulating in wild birds and poultry in the United States.
CDC's extensive collaboration with commercial laboratories stands to strengthen the national testing infrastructure and ensured broader availability of diagnostics for H5N1 bird flu.
In June 2024, acknowledging the limited availability and accessibility of diagnostic tests for avian influenza A(H5) outside of state and local public health laboratories, CDC issued an open call to industry for innovative solutions to increase the diagnostic capacity and accessibility for the United States.
In September 2024, CDC made awards to three clinical laboratory testing companies and two commercial diagnostic companies to bolster testing capacity for avian influenza A(H5N1).
Those companies are: ARUP Laboratories Labcorp Quest Diagnostics Hologic Alveo Quest Diagnostics, Labcorp, and ARUP laboratories have already launched new assays for the detection and subtyping of influenza A(H5) virus, which have increased access to and diagnostic capacity for tests available to healthcare providers that can specifically identify influenza A(H5) virus infection.
Summary While much as been accomplished, much remains to be done.
CDC, in collaboration with its partners will continue to be vigilant, science based, and humble in its efforts to control the current outbreak and protect the American People.
Current information is available at CDC's Avian Influenza website.
ON THIS PAGE Introduction Background The Coordinated Response Surveillance and Case Identification Prevention Strategies and Guidance Clinical Guidance Medical Countermeasures Laboratory Analysis and Tools Summary SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All Public Health MAY 9, 2024 Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) PURPOSE The Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) is an evaluation tool developed by CDC and external influenza experts that assesses the potential pandemic risk posed by influenza A viruses that currently circulate in animals but not in humans.
IRAT: Assessing Pandemic Risk The IRAT assesses potential pandemic risk based on two questions: "emergence" and "public health impact." These questions are listed as follows: Emergence asks the question: What is the risk that a virus not currently circulating in the human population has the potential for sustained human-to-human transmission?
Public health impact asks the question: If the virus were to achieve sus­tained human-to-human transmission, what is the risk that a virus not currently circulating in the human population has the potential for significant impact on public health?
Emergence refers to the risk of a novel (i.e., new in humans) influenza virus acquiring the ability to spread easily and efficiently in people.
Public health impact refers to the potential severity of human disease caused by the virus (e.g., deaths and hospitalizations) as well as the burden on society (e.g., missed workdays, strain on hospital capacity and resources, and interruption of basic public services) if a novel influenza virus were to begin spreading efficiently and sustainably among people.
IRAT's 10 Risk Elements The IRAT uses 10 risk elements to measure the potential pandemic risk associated with each of these questions.
These 10 risk elements can be grouped into three overarching categories: "properties of the virus," "attributes of the population," and "ecology & epidemiology of the virus." Influenza subject matter experts evaluate novel influenza viruses based on each of these 10 risk elements.
Each of the 10 risk elements is then weighted statistically based on its significance to each of the two questions.
A composite score for each virus is then calculated based on the given question.
These composite scores provide a means to rank and compare influenza viruses to each other in terms of their potential pandemic risk for each of the two questions.
As we learn more about influenza A viruses, these 10 risk elements may change, other risk elements may be added, or some current risk elements may be dropped.
The IRAT is designed to be flexible and responsive to current scientific advances.
IRAT's Key Objectives The IRAT is intended to do the following: Prioritize and maximize investments in pandemic preparedness by helping to determine which novel (new) influenza viruses to develop vaccines against and capitalizing on surveillance efforts and in-country capacity-building activities; Identify key gaps in information and knowledge which can be the basis to prompt additional studies (for example, if information is not available for one of the 10 risk elements used by the IRAT additional studies could be done or resources allocated to provide the missing information); Document in a transparent manner the data and scientific process used to inform decisions associated with pandemic preparedness; Provide a flexible means to uniformly and regularly update the risk assessment of a novel influenza virus as new information becomes available; Be an effective evaluation tool for public health and medical professionals; Provide a means to weigh the 10 risk elements differently depending on whether the intent of the risk assessment is to: measure the ability of an influenza virus to "emerge" as a pandemic capable virus (i.e., become capable of efficient human-to-human spread) or "impact" the human population if it did emerge.
IRAT's Limitations The IRAT cannot predict the next pandemic and is not intended to do so.
Additionally, the IRAT depends on subject matter experts to carefully analyze the 10 risk elements of the IRAT to determine pandemic risk and to rank the importance of the risk elements according to the specific risk question or situation.
The IRAT is not intended to provide a precise measurement of risk: Many risk assessments generate a quantitative measure that describes the likelihood of exposure or disease risk.
The IRAT focuses on the perceived pandemic potential of novel influenza viruses as estimated by subject matter experts using the IRAT risk elements and available data.
The IRAT depends on data that are often scarce and/or preliminary (for example, typically, when the IRAT is run, there are a small number of cases of human infection which may not provide a reliable estimate of public health impact).
IRAT's Overarching Categories The IRAT consists of 10 risk elements grouped within three overarching categories.
These categories and risk elements are described as follows: The "Properties of the Virus" category contains four of the 10 risk elements, including: Genomic analysis is a measure of the extent of genetic diversity or presence of known molecular signatures important for human infections and disease.
Receptor binding refers to the host preference (e.g., animal or human) of an influenza virus as well as the types of tissues and cells the virus is best suited to infecting (e.g., nose tissue and cells vs.
deep lung tissue and cells).
Some influenza viruses are better adapted to infecting humans than animals.
Transmission in animal models is a measure of the ability of an influenza virus to transmit efficiently in animals in laboratory studies.
Some influenza viruses can transmit through the air via small infectious droplets expelled through coughs or sneezes.
In contrast, other influenza viruses may only spread through direct contact with an infected host.
Antiviral treatment options refers to the predicted effectiveness of influenza antiviral medications, such as oseltamivir, zanamivir, baloxavir, and M2 blockers.
The "Attributes of the Population" category contains three of the 10 risk elements, including: Population immunity refers to whether the human population has any existing immune protection against the novel influenza virus being evaluated.
Susceptibility to infection and severity of illness associated with specific influenza viruses may depend on age, geographic area, or genetic factors.
Disease severity and pathogenesis measure the severity of illness caused by a particular influenza virus in people and/or animals.
Antigenic relatedness is a measure of how similar an influenza virus not circulating in humans is to seasonal influenza vaccines, pre-pandemic candidate vaccine viruses, and stockpiled pre-pandemic vaccines.
The "Ecology and Epidemiology" category contains the final risk elements, including: Global distribution in animals measures how widespread an influenza virus is in animals, the rate of spread over time, and any management factors that may affect the distributi.
Infections in animals refers to what kinds of animals are impacted by the influenza virus and the likelihood of human contact with these animals.
For example, are influenza infections occurring in wild birds or domestic birds?
Human infections refers to evidence and frequency of human infections with an influenza virus not currently capable of sustained human-to-human transmission.
If evidence exists, under what circumstances do human infections occur?
For example, how frequently and easily does transmission occur after direct and prolonged contact between humans and infected animals?
IRAT’s 10 Risk Elements Risk Elements: Ranked and Weighed Influenza experts generate numerical values (point score) to estimate the pandemic risk associated with each of the 10 risk elements.
The point scores fall into three general classifications of risk: low risk, moderate risk and high risk: Low risk is associated with a point score between 1.0 and 3.9; Moderate risk is associated with a point score between 4.0-7.9; and, High risk is associated with a point score between 8.0-10.0.
IRAT’s 10 Risk Elements: Weighing Each of the 10 risk elements is weighted according to its importance to each of the two questions on "emergence" and "public health impact." Potential Emergence Risk (Column 3 in Table) The first question is: "What is the risk that a novel virus has the potential for sustained human-to-human transmission?" The risk elements may be ranked and weighted as follows (with the first risk element receiving the highest rank and weight score, and the last risk element receiving the lowest rank and weight score).
Human infections Transmission in animal models Receptor binding Population immunity Infections in animals Genomic analysis Antigenic relatedness Global distribution of animals Disease severity and pathogenesis Antiviral treatment options Potential Impact Risk (Column 4 in Table) The second question is: "If the virus were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission, what is the risk that a novel virus has the potential for significant impact on public health?" The same risk elements could be ranked and weighted as follows (with the first risk element receiving the highest rank and weight score, and the last risk element receiving the lowest rank and weight score).
Disease severity and pathogenesis Population immunity Human infections Antiviral treatment options Antigenic relatedness Receptor binding Genomic analysis Transmission in animal models Global distribution in animals Infections in animals Acceptable Score Ranges Mean-High and Mean-Low Since the IRAT is qualitative in nature, its scores involve some degree of subjectivity.
Subject matter experts provide a range of “acceptable” scores for each risk element by identifying a lower and upper bound they would consider acceptable from other experts scoring the same element.
The mean of the lowest acceptable bound and the mean of the highest acceptable bound from each risk element are used in the weighted “emergence” or “public health impact” calculations to create the “mean-high” and “mean-low” acceptable score ranges.
Updating IRAT The IRAT may be updated when new zoonotic or novel influenza viruses emerge or undergo a change in characteristics that prompts the need for a new assessment.
IRAT Virus Summaries CDC has prepared a summary of Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) results.
ON THIS PAGE IRAT: Assessing Pandemic Risk IRAT's Key Objectives IRAT's Limitations IRAT's Overarching Categories IRAT’s 10 Risk Elements Acceptable Score Ranges Updating IRAT IRAT Virus Summaries RELATED PAGES National Pandemic Strategy Pandemic Intervals Framework (PIF) Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance VIEW ALL Pandemic Flu Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Past Examples of Probable Limited, Non-Sustained, Person-to-Person Spread of Avian Influenza A Viruses Public Health FEB.
27, 2023 KEY POINTS Avian influenza A viruses infect the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts of birds but rarely infect people.
Most previous avian influenza A virus infections of people have occurred following close, prolonged, and unprotected (e.g., no gloves or medical mask) contact with infected poultry or environments contaminated by their saliva, mucous, or feces that can contain these viruses.
The risk of human infection depends, in part, on the duration of exposure and the specific exposures encountered.
Background Because human infection with avian influenza A virus poses pandemic potential, every case must be investigated to assess whether human-to-human transmission might have occurred.
Detailed public health investigations can help determine whether person-to-person spread of an avian influenza A virus occurred.
In some clusters of epidemiologically related cases of avian influenza A virus infection, limited, non-sustained, human-to-human transmission is thought to have occurred to persons without poultry exposures.
No instances of human-to-human transmission of avian influenza A viruses have been reported in the United States.
Below are examples of probable limited, non-sustained, human-to-human transmission of different avian influenza A viruses in other countries.
Examples of probable person-to-person spread of avian influenza A viruses: In 1997, the first human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus were identified in Hong Kong.
Serologic studies suggested evidence of probable limited, non-sustained, human-to-human H5N1 virus spread.
(Buxton Bridges C.
"Risk of influenza A(H5N1) infection among health care workers exposed to patients with influenza A(H5N1), Hong Kong ;") (Katz JM et al.
"Antibody response in individuals infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses and detection of anti-H5 antibody among household and social contacts .") In 2003, in the Netherlands, there was evidence of limited, non-sustained spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H7N7) virus from two poultry workers to three family members.
All three family members had conjunctivitis (eye inflammation) and one also had influenza-like illness after exposure to an ill poultry worker at home.
(M Du Ry van Beest Holle, Meijer, et al, 2005.
"Human to Human Transmission of Avian Influenza /H7N7, The Netherlands, 2003 .") In 2004, in Thailand, there was evidence of limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in family members.
Spread of H5N1 virus was associated with prolonged, very close, unprotected contact between an ill child with H5N1 virus infection and her mother and aunt while the child was hospitalized.
(Ungchusak et al, 2005.
"Probable Person-to-Person Transmission of Avian Influenza A(H5N1) .") In 2005, in Indonesia, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in households among family members could not be excluded among two groups of cases who had no known contact with poultry or other animals but who did have prolonged, unprotected contact with a symptomatic person with H5N1 virus infection.
(Kandun et al, 2006.
"Three Indonesian Clusters of H5N1 Virus Infection in 2005 .") In 2006, in Indonesia, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person-to-person (3rd generation) spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus may have occurred among a family cluster of eight probable or confirmed H5N1 cases.
(Avian influenza – situation in Indonesia – update 16 ) In 2007, in China, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus is thought to have occurred between a sick son and his father through prolonged, very close, unprotected exposure during the son's hospitalization for severe H5N1 illness.
(Wang et al, 2008.
"Probable limited person-to-person transmission of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in China .") Also in 2007, in Pakistan, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person-to-person (3rd generation) spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus is thought to have occurred among brothers.
(WHO, Weekly Epidemiological Record, 2008.
Human cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) in North-West Frontier Province, Pakistan, October–November 2007 In 2013, human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus were first reported in China .
Yearly epidemics of human infections with H7N9 viruses during 2013-2017 in China were driven mostly by contact with infected poultry at live poultry markets or in backyard poultry flocks.
A small percentage of reported cases were associated with probable, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread, mostly occurring in households between family members.
However, probable, limited, non-sustained spread of H7N9 virus between unrelated persons has been reported in a few cases in hospitals.
(Li, Q et al, 2014.
"Epidemiology of human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in China ") (Xiang, N et al, 2016.
"Assessing Change in Avian Influenza A(H7N9) Virus Infections During the Fourth Epidemic — China, September 2015–August 2016") (Chen et al.
"Nosocomial Co-Transmission of Avian Influenza A(H7N9) and A(H1N1)pdm09 Viruses between 2 Patients with Hematologic Disorders ;") (Fang et al, 2015.
"Nosocomial transmission of avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in China: epidemiological investigation ." (Zhang et al, 2017.
"A Suspected Person-to-person Transmission of Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Case in Ward." ) RELATED PAGES Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI Surveillance and Monitoring Data Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses Global Human Cases with Influenza A(H5N1), 1997-2025 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Public Health MAY 15, 2025 ESPAÑOL Guidelines for Laboratory Biosafety: Handling and Processing Specimens Associated with Novel Influenza A Viruses, Including Potential A(H5N1) Virus KEY POINTS This guidance is intended for clinical laboratory and support staff who handle, or process specimens potentially containing Novel Influenza A viruses, including potential A(H5N1) viruses.
Clinical and Public Health Laboratories should continue to follow existing Influenza handling and processing guidance for specimens from patients suspected with Influenza virus infection, including sending any specimens from patients with suspected Novel Influenza A virus infection to a state health laboratory and alerting CDC immediately if any clinical specimens test positive for Novel Influenza A or if unsubtypeable results are obtained.
Laboratories should not attempt to isolate Novel Influenza A viruses using viral culture.
Introduction Novel Influenza A viruses are Influenza A viruses that have infected people but are different from seasonal Influenza A viruses currently circulating among humans.
This includes highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) or A(H7) viruses.
Clinical presentation for Novel Influenza A viruses can range from asymptomatic infections to severe disease.
For further information on Novel Influenza A viruses that have caused human infections: Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses Although some diagnostic assays may detect the presence of some Novel influenza A viruses, a negative subtyping result should not be used to rule out Novel influenza A virus infection when a sample is positive for influenza A.
Testing of symptomatic human cases of suspected Novel Influenza A virus infection should be referred to the nearest public health laboratory.
For more information: Interim Guidance on Testing and Specimen Collection for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses with the Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans This guidance is intended for clinical laboratory and support staff who handle, or process specimens potentially containing Novel Influenza A viruses, including potential A(H5N1) viruses.
For guidance for people who work with animals: Interim Guidance for Employers to Reduce Exposure to Avian Influenza A Viruses for People Working with Animals.
For biosafety considerations for viral culture: Culturing Specimens for Novel Influenza A Viruses Clinical and Public Health Laboratories should continue to follow existing handling and processing guidance for specimens from patients suspected with Influenza virus infection, including sending any specimens from patients with suspected Novel Influenza A virus infection to a state health laboratory and alerting CDC immediately if any clinical specimens test positive for Novel Influenza A or if unsubtypeable results are obtained.
Risk assessment and mitigation All laboratories should perform a site-specific and activity-specific risk assessment to identify and mitigate risks before working with diagnostic specimens.
Risk assessments and mitigation measures are dependent on: The procedures performed The hazards involved in the processes and procedures The competency level of the personnel who perform the procedures The laboratory equipment and facility The resources available It is recommended that biosafety professionals, institutional safety committees, laboratory management, laboratory personnel, and scientific safety experts be involved in the risk assessment process.
For more information, visit: Biological Risk Assessment: General Considerations for Laboratories Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) 6th Edition Biosafety Considerations for Diagnostic Testing: Facilities that process and test respiratory specimens should have the necessary equipment, engineering controls, PPE, appropriate diagnostic assays, and properly trained personnel.
Perform routine diagnostic specimen processing and testing in Biosafety Level 2 (BSL-2) laboratory facilities, adhering to standard precautions , safety equipment requirements, and facility specifications recommended for BSL-2, which includes, but are not limited to: Buttoned-down lab coat or solid front gown Eye protection (safety glasses or goggles), face protection (face shield), or combination of both Gloves when handling specimens Proper handwashing procedures Manipulate diagnostic specimens in a certified Class II Biosafety Cabinet (BSC) or other containment devices, especially if there is a potential to generate aerosols(e.g., vortexing or pipetting).
If you cannot perform a procedure within a BSC, use a combination of PPE and other containment devices (e.g., benchtop safety shield, centrifuge safety cups, or sealed rotor) designed to create a barrier between the specimen and the laboratory personnel.
Perform site-specific and activity-specific biosafety risk assessments to determine if your situation warrants additional precautions.
See precaution guidance below to prevent exposures for procedures with a high likelihood of generating droplets or aerosols.
Site-specific and activity-specific biosafety risk assessments should be performed to identify the need for additional precautions to reduce exposure risk.
These may include, but are not limited to: Double gloves NIOSH Approved® N95® filtering facepiece respirator or higherA Additional administrative controls and/or work practices Procedures with a high likelihood of generating droplets or aerosols Many routine laboratory procedures can generate aerosols and droplets that are often undetectable.
For example, the following laboratory procedures have been associated with the generation of infectious aerosols and droplets: pipetting, centrifuging, shaking, mixing, sonicating, vortexing, removing caps, aliquoting and loading specimens, spilling specimens, and cleaning up spills.
Procedures with a high likelihood of generating aerosols or droplets should be conducted using a certified Class II BSC or other physical containment equipment.
If it is not possible to perform a procedure within a BSC or other physical containment device, a combination of appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and administrative controls should be based on a risk assessment.
Culturing specimens for novel influenza A viruses Culture-based testing or viral isolation should not be performed for Novel influenza A viruses as a routine diagnostic procedure in clinical or diagnostic laboratories due to the potential for these viruses to be related to viruses that have caused severe disease in humans, as described above in the "Background" section of this page.
A subset of Novel Influenza A viruses are considered Select Agents, including Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) A viruses.
Select Agents are regulated by the Federal Select Agent Program.
Additional information on Select Agent regulations, policies, and requirements can be found on their website .
Decontamination Decontaminate work surfaces and equipment with appropriate disinfectants effective against Influenza viruses.
Users should carefully follow the manufacturer/label directions for the safe use of disinfectants.
All reusable PPE must be properly cleaned and decontaminated according to manufacturer's instructions after each use.
All residual specimens, and waste should be decontaminated before on-site disposal using an approved method, such as autoclaving.
Laboratory Waste Management Decontaminate all potentially infectious materials prior to disposal using an effective method consistent with all local and state requirements.
Materials that will be decontaminated outside the immediate laboratory should be placed in a durable, leak-proof container and closed for transport from the laboratory.
Follow local, regional, state, national, and international regulations for waste disposal.
State and local waste disposal regulations vary.
For more information, see: Environmental Protection Agency Regulations State Universal Waste Programs in the United States U.S.
Department of Transportation's: Managing Solid Waste | F-2 pages 94–97 Resources Biosafety Resources & Tools Centers for Disease Control and Prevention OneLab Reach Introduction to Laboratory Risk Management (LRM) Risk Assessment: The Foundation of Every Good Biorisk Management System Download ON THIS PAGE Introduction Diagnostic testing Risk assessment and mitigation Procedures with a high likelihood of generating droplets or aerosols Culturing specimens for novel influenza A viruses Decontamination Laboratory Waste Management Resources RELATED PAGES Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses Public Health and Clinical Labs Commercial Labs Specimen Submission Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus H7N9 Virus Testing for Laboratories VIEW ALL Bird Flu H5N1 Technical Report SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease Health Care Providers MAR.
9, 2022 WHAT TO KNOW This guidance provides recommendations for infection prevention and control in healthcare settings for patients who may be infected with a novel influenza A virus (i.e., an influenza A virus of animal origin that has not recently been circulating among humans) associated with severe disease.
The prevention measures outlined in this guidance will help prevent transmission to health care personnel, other patients, and visitors.
Patients who may be infected with novel influenza A viruses include confirmed cases, probable cases, and suspect cases/cases under investigation for infection with a novel influenza A virus associated with severe disease.
Interim Guidance Background Current Situation Summary For information on the most recent avian influenza developments specific to the United States, please visit the Current Situation Summary page.
These recommendations will be updated as additional information on transmissibility, epidemiology, available treatment, or vaccine options for novel influenza A viruses becomes available.
Among important differences from seasonal influenza guidance are recommendations for Contact and Airborne Precautions.
Note that recommendations in this guidance are in addition to Standard Precautions.
Information on Standard Precautions (can be found in the following documents: Guideline for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings Core Infection Prevention and Control Practices for Safe Healthcare Delivery in All Settings – Recommendations of the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee This interim guidance was developed based on existing infection prevention and control guidelines, currently available scientific evidence, and expert opinion.
Definition of Healthcare Settings Definition of Healthcare Settings — Refers to places where healthcare is delivered.
Healthcare settings include but are not limited to acute-care hospitals; long-term acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, long-term care facilities, such as nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities; physicians' offices; urgent-care centers; outpatient clinics; home healthcare (i.e., care provided at home by professional healthcare providers), and vehicles where healthcare is delivered (e.g., mobile clinics).
They also include specific sites within non-healthcare settings where healthcare is routinely delivered (e.g., a medical clinic embedded within a workplace or school).
Definition of Healthcare Personnel (HCP) Definition of Healthcare Personnel (HCP) – HCP refers to all paid and unpaid persons serving in healthcare settings who have the potential for direct or indirect exposure to patients or infectious materials, including body substances (e.g., blood, tissue, and specific body fluids); contaminated medical supplies, devices, and equipment; contaminated environmental surfaces; or contaminated air.
These HCP include, but are not limited to, emergency medical service personnel, nurses, nursing assistants, physicians, technicians, therapists, phlebotomists, pharmacists, students and trainees, contractual staff not employed by the healthcare facility, and persons not directly involved in patient care, but who could be exposed to infectious agents that can be transmitted in the healthcare setting (e.g., clerical, dietary, environmental services, laundry, security, engineering and facilities management, administrative, billing, and volunteer personnel).
Information and Definitions of Facemask and Respirator available in the Appendix on this page.
Fundamental Elements to Prevent Transmission Expand All Minimize Potential Exposures Implement Engineering Controls Monitor and Manage Ill and Exposed Healthcare Personnel` Train and Educate Healthcare Personnel Ensure Adherence to Infection Control Practices (i.e., Standard Precautions, plus Contact and Airborne Precautions) Implement Environmental Infection Control Manage Visitor Access and Movement Within the Facility Monitor Severe Respiratory Infections in the Healthcare Setting Appendix: Additional Information about Influenza Information about Facemasks: FDA – Masks and N95 Respirators, FDA A facemask is a product that covers the wearer's nose and mouth.
Facemasks are for use as source control and some may not be considered personal protective equipment.
Facemasks may or may not meet any fluid barrier or filtration efficiency levels; therefore, they are not a substitute for N95 respirators or other filtering facepiece respirators, which provide respiratory protection to the wearer, or for surgical masks, which provide fluid barrier protection to the wearer.
Information about Respirators: FDA – Surgical Masks and N95 Respirators, FDA A respirator is a personal protective device that is worn on the face, covers at least the nose and mouth, and is used to reduce the wearer's risk of inhaling hazardous airborne particles (including dust particles and infectious agents), gases, or vapors.
Respirators are approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
A commonly used respirator is a disposable N95 filtering facepiece respirator (commonly referred to as an N95).
Surgical N95 respirators are NIOSH-approved disposable N95 filtering facepiece respirators that also meet the FDA requirements for fluid penetration, flammability, and biocompatibility.
Surgical N95 respirators are recommended for use by healthcare personnel who need protection from both airborne and fluid hazards, such as splashes or sprays.
Reusable respirators include elastomeric half facepiece respirators and powered air-purifying respirators.
To work properly, tight fitting respirators must be specially fitted for each person who wears one (this is called "fit-testing" and is usually done in a workplace where respirators are used).
NIOSH information about respirators.
ON THIS PAGE Interim Guidance Background Fundamental Elements to Prevent Transmission Appendix: Additional Information about Influenza RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Bird Flu Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance on the Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease Health Care Providers JULY 3, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW This guidance provides recommendations for treatment of novel influenza A virus infections associated with severe human disease in the United States.
Summary This document provides guidance for antiviral treatment of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease (examples include but are not limited to highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses and avian influenza A(H7N9) virus).
These recommendations are based on available data on the treatment of infections caused by influenza viruses, including seasonal, pandemic, and novel influenza A viruses, and expert opinion.
Antiviral treatment is recommended as soon as possible for outpatients and hospitalized patients who are suspected, probable, or confirmed cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease.
This guidance reflects recently updated novel influenza A case definitions (visit Avian Influenza A Virus Case Definitions).
CDC will continue to evaluate new information as it becomes available and will update this guidance as needed.
Updated information will be provided on CDC's Avian Influenza Current Situation Summary.
For guidance on investigation of close contacts of case-patients, visit Interim Guidance on Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease and the Use of Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis.
CDC has issued information about Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for oseltamivir treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) of pandemic influenza A viruses and novel influenza A viruses with pandemic potential Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC.
Background To date, novel influenza A viruses such as highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses and avian influenza A(H7N9)es virus that have infected people have been susceptible to antivirals recommended for treatment of seasonal influenza.
There are no data from randomized clinical trials of antiviral treatment of outpatients or hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infections.
Antiviral treatment recommendations are based upon available observational studies (see Rationale section) and indirect evidence from studies of antiviral treatment of seasonal influenza.
Most avian influenza A(H7N9), A(H5N1), and A(H5N6) viruses are susceptible to the neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir, peramivir and zanamivir) and baloxavir, but are often resistant to the adamantanes (amantadine and rimantadine).
Therefore, amantadine and rimantadine are not recommended for treatment of novel influenza A virus infections.
Outpatients Initiation of antiviral treatment with oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for symptomatic outpatients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases of infection with a novel influenza A virus associated with severe human disease.
The standard dose of oseltamivir for adolescents and adults is 75 mg twice daily for 5 days.
For information on oseltamivir dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please visit: Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC and Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.
For a patient who is immunocompromised, combination antiviral treatment (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered because of the increased potential for emergence of antiviral resistance in immunocompromised persons treated with monotherapy for influenza.
Decisions to initiate antiviral treatment for untreated outpatients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases with uncomplicated disease, in whom fever is absent and symptoms are nearly resolved, should be based on clinical judgment.
Because of the potential for progression to severe disease, oseltamivir treatment is recommended as soon as possible for persons with conjunctivitis or acute respiratory illness.
For questions regarding clinical management, antiviral dosing, including if antiviral resistance is a concern, contact the CDC Influenza Division for consultation with a medical officer via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
Hospitalized Patients Initiation of antiviral treatment with oral or enterically administered oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for hospitalized patients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases of infection with novel influenza A virus associated with severe human disease, regardless of time since illness onset.
Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for laboratory testing results.
(For information regarding specimen collection and laboratory testing, visit the Interim Guidance for Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans.) For information on oseltamivir dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please visit: Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC and Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.
The standard dose of oseltamivir for adolescents and adults is 75 mg twice daily for 5 days.
However, the optimal duration and dosing are uncertain for patients with severe disease.
Human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) and avian influenza A(H7N9) viruses have been shown to be associated with higher virus levels and longer duration of viral replication (particularly in the lower respiratory tract disease) in hospitalized patients than with seasonal influenza A or B virus infection,12345 Combination antiviral treatment (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered for hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infection because it is possible that some novel influenza A viruses might become resistant to oseltamivir and peramivir during antiviral treatment with one of these agents 36789 Oseltamivir resistance has been reported in hospitalized patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, resulting in fatal outcome 3.
If a hospitalized patient treated with oseltamivir or peramivir manifests progressive lower respiratory disease, the presence of a resistant virus should be considered.
After consultation with CDC's Influenza Division, investigation for antiviral resistance should be performed.
Combination treatment with a neuraminidase inhibitor and baloxavir did not have clinical benefit compared with neuraminidase inhibitor and placebo in a randomized clinical trial in hospitalized patients with seasonal influenza, but the addition of baloxavir reduced duration of infectious viral shedding 10 Limited data suggest that oseltamivir administered orally or by oro/naso gastric tube is well absorbed in critically ill influenza patients, including those in the intensive care unit, on continuous renal replacement therapy, and/or on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.1112131415161718 However, for patients who cannot tolerate or absorb oral or enterically-administered oseltamivir because of suspected or known gastric stasis, malabsorption, or gastrointestinal bleeding, IV peramivir is an alternative.
Any questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, combination antiviral treatment dosing, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division for consultation with a medical officer via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
Rationale Oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for treatment of symptomatic patients who are suspected, confirmed, or probable cases of infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease based on observational studies of patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection.
An observational study of HPAI A(H5N1) patients in Indonesia (N=127) reported that oseltamivir treatment started within 2 days of symptom onset was significantly associated with lower mortality compared to patients who received oseltamivir treatment started later (e.g., ≥5-6 days after symptom onset).19 An observational study of a multi-country registry of HPAI A(H5N1) patients reported that oseltamivir treatment (n=98) was significantly associated with survival compared with no treatment (n=123), and survival was highest when oseltamivir was started within 2 days of symptom onset20.
An observational study of an expanded multi-country registry of HPAI A(H5N1) patients reported that oseltamivir treatment initiated within 2 days of symptom onset in patients without respiratory failure when treatment was started (n=113) was significantly associated with survival21.
There are no data for baloxavir treatment of patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection.
One small case series (n=5) in critically ill hospitalized patients infected with HPAI A(H5N6) virus, clade 2.3.4.4b, who were treated daily with oseltamivir (median time from symptom onset to starting oseltamivir: 5 days) and baloxavir was added every 3 days (median time from symptom onset to starting baloxavir: 11 days) reported that the addition of baloxavir reduced A(H5N6) viral RNA levels in sputum and levels of some cytokines in sputum and serum, although 3 of the 5 patients died22.
Observational studies of antiviral treatment of patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection have yielded mixed results.
An observational study of 305 patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection hospitalized in a single province in China during 2013-2017 that used time-dependent survival models reported no significant association between time to starting antiviral treatment with neuraminidase inhibitors and survival24.
A single center observational study of 160 patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection hospitalized during 2013-2017 in China reported that starting antiviral treatment with oseltamivir within 2 days of symptom onset was significantly associated with decreased risk of death25 .
Other Considerations Clinical judgment and virologic testing of lower respiratory tract specimens by RT-PCR should guide decisions to consider treatment regimens longer than 5 days for hospitalized patients with severe and prolonged illness.
For patients with lower respiratory tract disease, lower respiratory tract specimens such as bronchoalveolar lavage fluid or endotracheal aspirate are preferred; a combined nasal and oropharyngeal (throat) swab specimen may be collected if lower respiratory specimens are not available.
Lower respiratory tract specimens may yield the diagnosis when testing of upper respiratory tract specimens produce negative results in hospitalized patients with severe disease.
Multiple respiratory tract specimens collected on different days should be tested if novel influenza A virus infection associated with severe disease is suspected without another definitive diagnosis.
Longer treatment regimens might be necessary in severely immunosuppressed persons (e.g., hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients) who may have prolonged influenza viral replication.
Such patients are at risk of developing antiviral-resistant virus infection with monotherapy.
Although no data from clinical trials are available, combination treatment of immunocompromised patients using antivirals with different mechanisms of action (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered.
Limited data do not suggest clinical benefit of higher antiviral dosing.
A higher dose of oseltamivir has been recommended by some experts (e.g., 150 mg twice daily in adults with normal renal function instead of the standard 75 mg twice daily dose) for treatment of influenza in immunocompromised patients and in severely ill hospitalized patients26.
However, oral or enterically administered oseltamivir has been reported to be adequately absorbed in critically ill adults, with standard doses producing therapeutic blood levels11.
Although the higher dose was generally well-tolerated and not associated with severe adverse events, limited data suggest that higher dosing may not provide additional clinical benefit for seasonal influenza or for pandemic 2009 influenza A (H1N1)2728.
Studies indicate that the exposure to oseltamivir carboxylate (the active metabolite of oseltamivir) is similar between obese and non-obese subjects for both 75 mg and 150 mg doses given twice daily293031.
Inhaled zanamivir is not recommended because of the lack of data for use in patients with severe seasonal influenza.
There are insufficient data regarding the efficacy or effectiveness of intravenous (IV) peramivir for hospitalized seasonal influenza patients.
Use of two neuraminidase inhibitors (e.g., inhaled zanamivir in combination with oseltamivir or peramivir, or use of oseltamivir and peramivir) is not recommended because of data suggesting that antagonism may occur when 2 neuraminidase inhibitors are given simultaneously compared to monotherapy in outpatients32.
If used to treat hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infection, this dose of IV peramivir is recommended for a minimum of 5 days (not a single dose as is recommended for outpatients with uncomplicated illness).
ON THIS PAGE Summary Background Outpatients Hospitalized Patients Rationale Other Considerations RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Specimen Collection Clinical Guidance for H5N1 Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Clinical Guidance for H5N1 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Pandemic Flu EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About Pandemic Flu VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Healthcare System Preparedness and Response VIEW ALL Public Health National Pandemic Strategy Monitoring for Influenza Viruses Interim Updated Planning Guidance Federal Resources for Planning VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Flu Forecasting View All JUNE 10, 2024 Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) PURPOSE The PSAF is one of two assessment tools developed by CDC to guide and coordinate actions among federal, state, local, and tribal entities involved in pandemic response.
Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) Once a novel influenza A virus is identified and is spreading from person-to-person in a sustained manner, public health officials use the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) to determine the impact of the pandemic, or how "bad" the pandemic will be.
There are two main factors that can be used to determine the impact of a pandemic.
The first is clinical severity, or how serious is the illness associated with infection.
The second factor is transmissibility, or how easily the pandemic virus spreads from person-to-person.
These two factors combined are used to guide decisions about which actions CDC recommends at a given time during the pandemic.
The framework is divided into two parts.
The first part is the initial assessment, which happens early during a pandemic.
At this time, activity may be detected in pockets or certain communities across the country so information and understanding about the pandemic virus will be limited.
By studying the information that is available, CDC can produce a preliminary assessment of the potential impact of the pandemic (e.g., low to moderate transmissibility and moderate to high clinical severity).
However, that assessment may change as the pandemic evolves and more information is known.
The second part, or refined assessment, happens later in the pandemic when more information is available.
This additional information helps to provide a more refined and accurate picture of pandemic impact, including assessments of the pact by age group.
The results of these assessments can be compared to past pandemics (or even seasonal influenza epidemics), creating a quick comparative snapshot of the potential impact of the pandemic.
For example, using the PSAF, the 1918 pandemic can be characterized as one with very high transmissibility and very high clinical severity whereas the 2009 H1N1 pandemic can be characterized as one with moderate transmissibility and clinical severity for the overall population.
The results help public health officials and health care professionals make timely and informed decisions, and to take appropriate actions.
The PSAF is one of two assessment tools developed by CDC to guide and coordinate actions among federal, state, local, and tribal entities involved in pandemic response.
Please refer to "Novel Framework for Assessing Epidemiologic Effects of Influenza Epidemics and Pandemics" for more information about the PSAF.
Related Links Pandemic Planning and Preparedness Resources Pandemic Influenza Risk Management: WHO Interim Guidance SOURCES PRINT SHARE Pandemic Flu A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of an influenza A virus against which most people lack immunity.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Global Human Cases with Influenza A(H5N1), 1997-2025 Public Health SEPT.
22, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW This graph shows all human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) bird flu virus reported to the World Health Organization (WHO), since the first human cases in 1997.
Background This graph shows all human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) bird flu virus reported to the World Health Organization (WHO), since the first human cases in 1997.
A(H5N1) bird flu viruses first emerged in southern China in 1996.
Those viruses caused large poultry outbreaks in Hong Kong in 1997, which resulted in 18 human infections.
The 1997 bird outbreak was controlled, but the A(H5N1) bird flu viruses were not eradicated in birds and re-surfaced in 2003 to spread widely in birds throughout Asia, and later in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East, causing poultry outbreaks and sporadic human infections.
Since 2003, more than 23 countries have reported more than 890 sporadic human infections with A(H5N1) bird flu viruses to WHO.
A(H5N1) bird flu viruses that are currently circulating in wild birds and poultry in much of the world are genetically different from earlier versions of the virus and emerged to become the predominant subtype of HPAI H5 in the fall of 2021.
These viruses have caused sporadic wild bird infections and poultry outbreaks in many countries, including the United States, with spillover to mammals in some countries.
In contrast to previous A(H5N1) viruses, which still circulate to a lesser extent in several countries, at this time, a small number of sporadic human cases with current A(H5N1) bird flu viruses have been reported globally.
However, illness in humans from all bird flu virus infections has ranged in severity from no symptoms or mild illness to severe disease that resulted in death.
* Several recent A(H5) cases have been reported in the U.S.
The CDC has been unable to isolate the virus from the recent human cases.
As a result, CDC has been unable to determine the virus's neuraminidase subtype or whether it is likely an N1.
This data will be updated biweekly on Fridays.
For more data on H5 cases in the United States, visit: H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation | Bird Flu | CDC RELATED PAGES Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI Surveillance and Monitoring Data Past Examples of Probable Limited, Non-Sustained, Person-to-Person Spread of Avian Influenza A Viruses Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All H7N9 Virus Testing for Laboratories Public Health NOV.
26, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC has developed diagnostic test materials to specifically detect the avian influenza A(H7N9) virus that was first identified in China in 2013.
These test materials include rRT-PCR reagents (primers and probes), controls, and an rRT-PCR test protocol.
Reagents and Controls for A(H7N9) These materials are available for ordering from the International Reagent Resource (IRR) website.
Note: Testing with the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel-Influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Assay should not be performed unless the patient meets clinical and epidemiologic criteria for testing suspect specimens.
Domestic Ordering- (Kit name EUA) CDC's International Reagent Resource (IRR) provides registered users with reagents, tools, and information for studying and detecting influenza virus and other pathogens, including A(H7N9).
Laboratories registered with IRR may order the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel, Influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Assay (EUA) (Catalog No.
FluEUA-01).
This kit contains both the oligonucleotide primers and a dual-labeled hydrolysis (TaqMan®) probe used in rRT-PCR for the in vitro qualitative detection and characterization of human influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) viruses from viral RNA in respiratory specimens from patients presenting with influenza-like illness (ILI) and from virus culture and an Influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Positive Control (EuH7PC).
These reagents are intended for use in conjunction with the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel, Influenza A/B Typing Kit (IVD) (Catalog No.
FluIVD03-9) that is currently used by U.S.
public health laboratories.
Non-public health entities can obtain primer sequences or testing protocols from the CLSIS website below.
International Ordering- (Kit Name RUO) International public health laboratories registered with IRR may order the CDC Real-Time RT-PCR Influenza Virus A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Assay (RUO) (Catalog No.
FluRUO-07) and the CDC Influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Positive Control (EuH7PC) (RUO) (Catalog No.
To order the A(H7N9) reagents, NICs and national public health laboratories are encouraged to register with IRR by visiting the IRR's Registration page if they have not done so already.
Requests from National Influenza Centers (NICs) and national public health laboratories will be processed as soon as possible.
For more information on what to expect with regard to international shipping of IRR reagents, users may refer to IRR FAQ's page or contact IRR's customer service team .
Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) On April 22, 2013, the FDA issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel-Influenza A/H7 (Eurasian Lineage) Assay.
More information is available from the FDA website .
Note that issuance of this EUA does NOT indicate that an actual public health emergency exists in the United States.
Distribution of diagnostic test kits domestically is a preparedness measure.
For information on the latest available FDA H7 molecular assays via EUA, see the FDA website .
These EUAs will cease to be effective when the declaration of emergency is terminated under section 564(b)(2) of the Act or when the EUA is revoked under section 564(g) of the Act.
A(H7N9) Test Protocols CDC's A(H7N9) rRT-PCR test protocol is available via CDC's Laboratory Support of Influenza Surveillance (CLSIS) Sharepoint website.
The CLSIS SharePoint site provides technical support and guidance for influenza surveillance testing.
As a registered user, laboratories will have access to influenza testing protocols as well as other technical support resources.
All future updates and communications will be provided via this SharePoint site.
For further information or assistance, an email can be sent to clsis@cdc.gov.
ON THIS PAGE Reagents and Controls for A(H7N9) U.S.
Domestic Ordering- (Kit name EUA) International Ordering- (Kit Name RUO) Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) A(H7N9) Test Protocols RELATED PAGES Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses Public Health and Clinical Labs Commercial Labs Specimen Submission Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus Guidelines for Laboratory Biosafety VIEW ALL Bird Flu Guidelines for Laboratory Biosafety SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance on Influenza Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds or Other Animals with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease or with the Potential to Cause Severe Human Disease Health Care Providers JULY 3, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW This document provides interim guidance for clinicians and public health professionals in the United States on antiviral chemoprophylaxis of persons exposed to birds or other animals infected with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease or thought to have the potential to cause severe human disease.
Background H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus: Interim Recommendations for Prevention, Monitoring, and Public Health Investigations Examples of novel influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe human disease can be found on Bird Flu Virus Infections in Humans, including highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses, and avian influenza A(H7N9) virus.
Additionally, more information about specific novel influenza A viruses and past reported human infections with novel influenza A viruses is available.
There is limited experience with these newly detected viruses to inform public health guidance regarding use of antiviral chemoprophylaxis.
However, these viruses are thought to have the potential to infect people and cause severe illness.
Rare human infections with novel influenza A viruses have been documented in the U.S.
since 2002.
CDC will update this guidance as additional information becomes available.
Exposure to Birds or Other Animals Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses Persons with recent exposure (within 10 days) to novel influenza A viruses include exposure to A(H5) or A(H7) virus-infected animals.
Close exposure is defined as being within approximately 6 feet of birds or other animals with confirmed novel influenza A virus infection by A(H5) or A(H7) viruses.
The risk of infection with novel influenza A viruses is higher in people with unprotected exposures (e.g., not using recommended respiratory and eye protection) than in those who used such protective equipment.
SEE ALSO Case Definitions for Investigations of Human Infection with Avian Influenza A Viruses in the United States Bird or other animal exposures can include, but are not limited to: Animals or Animal Parts Handling, slaughtering, defeathering, butchering, culling, or preparation of birds, dairy cattle, or other potentially sick animals or body parts from infected animals (carcasses, internal organs, etc.) Food Products Consuming uncooked or undercooked food, including unpasteurized (raw) milk or other unpasteurized dairy products Contaminated Surfaces Direct contact with surfaces contaminated with urine or feces, animal bedding or litter, feed or water that may be contaminated with animal excretions (e.g., ponds, waterers, buckets, pans, troughs), milk tanks/milk parlors Locations Visiting or working in locations with animals with confirmed novel influenza A virus infection including: poultry farms, dairy farms, live poultry markets Exposure to Birds or Other Animals with Unknown Novel Influenza A Virus Infection Status More information on persons with unprotected exposure (e.g., not using respiratory and eye protection) can be found here: Case Definitions for Investigations of Human Infection with Avian Influenza A Viruses in the United States.
It is not possible to know whether well-appearing, sick or dead wild birds or other animals are infected with novel influenza A viruses until they are tested.
More information can be found at: Information for People Exposed to Birds or Other Animals Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses Information Specific to Hunters of Wild Waterfowl Download Monitoring of Exposed Persons Exposed persons should monitor themselves daily for signs and symptoms of new illness for 10 days after the last known exposure.
Fever may not always be present.
Less common signs and symptoms are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, or seizures.
Any exposed person who develops any new illness symptoms such as those listed above, and particularly any new respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing), conjunctivitis, or other symptoms, with or without fever (see clinical criteria) should be promptly tested for novel influenza A virus infection.
Post-exposure Chemoprophylaxis of Exposed Persons Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with influenza antiviral medications can be considered for exposed persons.
Decisions to initiate post-exposure antiviral chemoprophylaxis should be based on clinical judgment, with consideration given to the type of exposure (e.g.
without use of respiratory and eye protection), duration of exposure, time since exposure (e.g.
less than 2 days), known infection status of the birds or other animals the person was exposed to, and whether the exposed person is at higher risk for complications from seasonal influenza.
If PEP is initiated, antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis should begin as soon as possible (ideally within 48 hours) after the first exposure.
Oral oseltamivir at treatment dosing frequency (one dose twice daily) is recommended instead of the typical antiviral chemoprophylaxis regimen (once daily) for seasonal influenza.
All human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in the U.S.
have been with viruses susceptible to oseltamivir.
Antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir (twice daily) should be continued for 5 or 10 days.
If the exposure was time-limited and not ongoing, the recommended duration is 5 days from the last known exposure.
If the exposure is likely to be ongoing, a duration of 10 days is recommended because of the potential for prolonged infectiousness from the infected animal(s).
Specific dosage recommendations for treatment by age group are available at Recommended Dosage and Duration of Influenza Antiviral.
This recommendation for oral oseltamivir with twice daily antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis dosing is based on limited data in animals that support higher chemoprophylaxis dosing for avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infection1, and on the desire to reduce the potential for development of antiviral resistance while receiving once daily chemoprophylaxis if infection occurred234.
To support post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir using twice daily dosing for novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease, including highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, CDC issued Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for oseltamivir.
Chemoprophylaxis is not routinely recommended for personnel involved in culling non-infected or likely non-infected bird populations.
Chemoprophylaxis is also not recommended as a control measure for personnel involved in handling sick birds or decontaminating affected environments (including animal disposal) who used proper personal protective equipment.
SEE ALSO CDC guidance for Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis.
ON THIS PAGE Background Exposure to Birds or Other Animals Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses Exposure to Birds or Other Animals with Unknown Novel Influenza A Virus Infection Status Monitoring of Exposed Persons Post-exposure Chemoprophylaxis of Exposed Persons RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Specimen Collection Antiviral Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Clinical Guidance for H5N1 Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Clinical Guidance for Evaluating Patients and Treatment and Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) of Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Infection Health Care Providers JULY 8, 2025 KEY POINTS Clinicians should consider the possibility of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus infection in patients showing signs or symptoms of acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis, and who have relevant exposure history.
Patients with relevant exposure histories who also develop signs and symptoms consistent with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, including acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis, should be referred for prompt medical evaluation, testing, and empiric initiation of antiviral treatment with oseltamivir (standard dose is twice daily x 5 days) as soon as possible.
Antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with oseltamivir can be considered as soon as possible for any asymptomatic person meeting epidemiologic exposure criteria (e.g., household contacts of cases or other persons with high-risk exposures).
Overview of recommendations Clinicians should consider the possibility of HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection in patients showing signs or symptoms of acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis who also have relevant exposure history.
This includes patients who: Have had unprotected contact (without using recommended respiratory and eye protection) with potentially infected sick or dead birds, livestock, or other animals, or with secretions or other materials like animal bedding that were contaminated or potentially contaminated, within 10 days before symptom onset (e.g., handling, milking, feeding, and providing care for, as well as slaughtering, defeathering, butchering, culling, preparing for consumption or consuming uncooked or undercooked food or related uncooked food products, including unpasteurized (raw) milk or other unpasteurized dairy products) outdoors or indoors, including in a confined space.
Had direct contact with water or surfaces contaminated with feces, unpasteurized (raw) milk or unpasteurized dairy products, or parts (carcasses, internal organs, etc.) of potentially infected animals.
For patients who meet the above criteria, clinicians should: Contact the state public health department to arrange testing for influenza A(H5N1) virus.
Collect respiratory specimens (visit recommendations below) utilizing recommended personal protective equipment (PPE).
Start empiric antiviral treatment with oseltamivir (more information below).
Encourage the patient to isolate at home away from their household members and not go to work or school until it is determined they do not have HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection.
Testing for other potential causes of acute respiratory illness should also be considered depending upon the local activity of circulating respiratory pathogens, including SARS-CoV-2.
KEEP READING Clinician Brief: Evaluating and Managing Patients Exposed to Animals or Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses of Public Health Concern Infection prevention and control Standard, contact, and airborne precautions with eye protection (e.g.
goggles or face shield) are recommended for patients presenting for medical care or evaluation who have illness consistent with influenza and recent exposure to birds or other animals potentially infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
KEEP READING Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease Antiviral Treatment Specific dosage recommendations for treatment by age group are available at Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.
Physicians should consult the manufacturer's package insert for dosing, limitations of populations studied, contraindications, and adverse effects.
Outpatients Outpatients meeting epidemiologic exposure criteria who develop signs and symptoms consistent with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, including acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis, should be referred for prompt medical evaluation, testing, and empiric treatment with oseltamivir (twice daily x 5 days) as soon as possible.
Clinical benefit is greatest when antiviral treatment is administered early, especially within 48 hours of illness onset.
Empiric antiviral treatment can be started before test results are available and after 48 hours of symptom onset.
Asymptomatic persons with bird or other animal exposures who test positive for influenza A(H5N1) virus should be offered oseltamivir treatment (twice daily x 5 days), unless already receiving oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis (see details below).
Hospitalized patients Hospitalized patients meeting epidemiologic exposure criteria with signs and symptoms consistent with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, including acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis, regardless of time since illness onset, are recommended to initiate antiviral treatment with oral or enterically administered oseltamivir (twice daily x 5 days) as soon as possible.
Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for influenza testing results.
Clinicians should consult a hospital pharmacist regarding adjustment of antiviral dosing for patients with acute kidney injury or kidney failure.
Detailed guidance on dosing and treatment duration, including consideration of combination antiviral treatment, is available at Interim Guidance of the Use of Antiviral Medications for the Treatment of Human Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease.
The optimal duration and dosing of antiviral treatment are uncertain for severe or complicated influenza.
Treatment regimens might need to be altered to fit the clinical circumstances.
Longer duration of treatment e.g., 10 days) should be considered for severely ill hospitalized patients with influenza A(H5N1) virus infection.
Combination antiviral treatment (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered for hospitalized patients.
Any questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, combination antiviral treatment dosing, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division for consultation with a medical officer via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
Asymptomatic persons with bird or other animal exposures who test positive for influenza A(H5) virus Asymptomatic persons exposed to animals known or suspected to be infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus who reported not wearing recommended PPE or who experienced a PPE breach in recommended PPE and who tested positive for influenza A(H5) virus should be offered oseltamivir treatment (standard dose is twice daily x 5 days) (unless already receiving oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis).
Exposed asymptomatic persons who test positive for influenza A(H5) virus should wear a facemask when in close contact with others and should continue to be actively monitored for signs and symptoms of acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis for 10 days after testing A(H5) virus positive.
Any exposed person who tested positive for influenza A(H5) virus while asymptomatic and who develops signs or symptoms of acute respiratory illness or conjunctivitis while receiving oseltamivir for treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis, should be isolated, and tested again for A(H5) virus.
If testing is negative for influenza A(H5) virus, testing for other respiratory pathogens can be considered.
Monitoring and Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Recommendations for monitoring and antiviral PEP of close contacts of infected people (e.g., household contacts of a case patient, healthcare personnel with unprotected exposures to a case patient) are different from those that apply to people who meet bird or other animal exposure criteria.
Post-exposure prophylaxis of close contacts of a person with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection is recommended as soon as possible with oseltamivir twice daily (treatment dosing) for 5 days as soon as possible instead of the once daily oseltamivir PEP dosing for seasonal influenza.
Detailed guidance is available at Interim Guidance on Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis.
Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) of Persons with Animal Exposures Considerations for Antiviral PEP of asymptomatic persons with exposures to animals infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus For people who properly used recommended PPE Antiviral PEP is not routinely recommended for asymptomatic persons who properly used (including when taking off) recommended PPE and experienced no breaches while handling sick or potentially infected birds or other sick or dead animals or decontaminating infected environments (including animal disposal).
For people who meet the epidemiologic exposure criteria Antiviral PEP with oseltamivir can be considered for any person meeting epidemiologic exposure criteria.
Decisions to initiate antiviral PEP should be based on clinical judgment, with consideration given to the person's underlying health (e.g., pregnancy, chronic medical conditions), the type of exposure, duration of exposure, time since exposure, and known infection status of the birds or animals the person was exposed to.
Antiviral PEP is not an alternative for use of appropriate PPE and engineering and administrative controls, and receipt of PEP should not be contingent upon acceptance of and participation in influenza testing.
When feasible, offer oral oseltamivir for post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) and avian influenza A(H5) virus testing as soon as possible to asymptomatic individuals who experienced high risk of exposure to A(H5N1) virus.
Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis Dosing If oseltamivir PEP is initiated for A(H5N1), oseltamivir treatment dosing (one dose twice daily) is recommended instead of antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis dosing (once daily) for seasonal influenza.
If exposure was time-limited and not ongoing, five days of medication (one dose twice daily) from the last known exposure is recommended.
Longer duration of oseltamivir PEP (e.g., twice daily for 10 days) can be given for ongoing high risk of exposure (e.g., inadequate PPE) to animals confirmed to be infected or highly suspected to be infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
Vaccination No human vaccines for prevention of influenza A(H5N1) virus infection are currently commercially available in the United States.
Seasonal influenza vaccines do not provide specific protection against human infection with HPAI A(H5N1) viruses.
Interim Risk Categories by Exposure Categories of individual risk for influenza A(H5N1) virus infection by setting and exposure, including exposure to infected poultry or dairy cows, contaminated animal products, and other suspected infected peri-domestic animals.
Last updated: November 7, 2024 This tableA provides a framework for epidemiologic assessment of individual risk for highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus infection amidst the ongoing U.S.
outbreak of HPAI A(H5N1) viruses in poultry and dairy cows.
CDC considers the current risk to the U.S.
public from HPAI A(H5N1) viruses to be low; however, persons with exposure to infected animals, or contaminated materials, including raw cow's milk, are at higher risk for HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection and should take recommended precautions, including using recommended personal protective equipment.
This table is intended for use by public health practitioners to help determine how best to prioritize monitoring and investigation efforts among higher risk persons when resources are limited.
In summary, among groups exposed to HPAI A(H5N1) viruses, the highest risk for HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection is from close, direct, unprotected contact with animals with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or their environments and exposure to contaminated raw cow's milk from infected cows or other products made from contaminated raw cow's milk.
While data are still being gathered on the current outbreak, current risk assessments are based on expert opinion and supported by historical case examples from the literature.
As additional data are gathered from the response, these assessments will be refined, and the risk category associated with some exposures may change.
High risk of exposure Working on farms with poultry or cows with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or sick poultry or cows exposed to those with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infectionB ; known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Working with poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection in any capacity without appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) Milking cows Getting splashed in face or eyes with raw milk from cows Feeding or watering poultry or cows Handling carcasses of dead cows, poultry culling, depopulation, butchering, evisceration Providing veterinary care for poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection (including veterinarians, veterinarian staff, farm owners or workers, animal health responders) Medicating cows (e.g., instilling electrolyte solution down cow’s throat) Handling, examining, taking specimens for testing (respiratory, blood, etc.) Vaccinating cows Poultry procedures such as debeaking or beak trimming, de-spurring, claw/toe trimming, dubbing/dewattling, feather plucking, wing clipping, Inspecting/examining poultry Having experienced a breach in PPE, wearing inadequate PPE, or removing PPE incorrectly while handling or working with poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or their environments Working in environments with poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Cleaning and disinfecting cow pens, chicken coops or hen houses, poultry cages (e.g., shoveling or cleaning waste including urine/feces, using high pressure sprayer to clean pens, cleaning or replacing bedding) Contact with contaminated fomites, feed or water Performing activities in milking parlors (e.g., cleaning milking parlor or milk tanks, conducting bulk tank testing, collecting milk samples, dumping milk, pumping milk into bulk tanks) Cleaning up after poultry depopulation (e.g., removal of poultry body parts, feathers, feces, organic material) Working with calves (feeding non-heat-treated colostrum, bottle feeding raw milk, watering or medicating calves, cleaning calf pens) Working in maternity pens (calving, providing post-partum care, handling aborted fetuses) Handling other sick or dead animals (e.g., cats, wild birds, poultry) on premises with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection in dairy cattle or poultry without appropriate PPE Providing veterinary care Feeding or watering animals Handling carcasses Non-workers living on dairy or poultry farm premises Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Examples of direct/close contact with sick/dead animals with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection.
TX and MI dairy farm cases from the current (2024) U.S.
response fall into this category123 CO poultry farm cases from the current (2024) U.S.
response4 CO poultry farm case from 2022 where worker involved in culling/depopulation5 Direct contact with sick/dead poultry6 Preparing sick/dead poultry for consumption; having sick/dead poultry in the household7 NEJM Review: Update on HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection in humans8 : Direct avian-to-human HPAI A(H5N1) virus transmission is the predominant means of human infection, although the exact mode and sites of HPAI A (H5N1) virus acquisition in the respiratory tract are incompletely understood.
Handling of sick or dead poultry during the week before the onset of illness is the most common risk factor.
Most patients have acquired HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection from poultry raised inside or outside their houses.
Slaughtering, defeathering, or preparing sick poultry for cooking; and playing with or holding diseased or dead poultry have all been implicated as potential risk factors.
Drinking, consuming or exposure to contaminated raw cow’s milk from cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or other products made from contaminated raw cow’s milk Currently, level of risk to humans is unknown but high level of concern based on available animal data Examples of behaviors/activities In settings where raw milk is obtained from cows with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or sick cows exposed to those with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Drinking raw milk obtained directly from bulk tanks on farms Drinking raw milk purchased at stores, restaurants, farmers markets Eating or drinking other products made from contaminated raw cow’s milk purchased at farms, stores, restaurants, farmers markets Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Researchers orally inoculated mice with HPAI A(H5N1) positive milk and found that animals showed signs of illness starting on Day 1.
High virus titers were detected in respiratory organs, with medium titers in other organs suggesting systemic infection.
Heat inactivation reduced H5 virus titers9 .
On dairy farms in Texas, deaths occurred in domestic cats fed raw colostrum and milk from cows with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection.
Clinical signs in sick cats included depressed mental status, ataxia, blindness and ocular and nasal discharge10 .
Slaughterhouse exposures to cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Working in slaughterhouses directly with cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection without appropriate PPE Unloading or handling live lactating dairy cows for slaughter Working in holding pens Performing antemortem inspections Performing post-mortem inspections Handling and transporting viscera Removing and transporting udders for further processing or rendering Close or prolonged contact with wild birds with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or their contaminated environments; known close bird contact Examples of behaviors/activities Risk would depend on extent of exposure to infected case as well as use of appropriate PPE People in direct contact with sick or dead wild birds People involved in depopulation/culling of wild birds Wildlife agency employees in direct contact with sick or dead wild birds, including defeathering, carcass removal and disposal Hunters who handle wild birds Touching surfaces or materials (e.g., animal litter or bedding material) contaminated by wild birds with saliva, mucous, or feces Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Close contact with and defeathering of wild swans was implicated as the source of exposure for two clusters of HPAI A(H5N1) in Azerbaijan11 Occupational exposure to poultry or other animals with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Working at a live bird market (e.g., handling poultry, feeding poultry, cleaning pens, slaughtering/evisceration, carcass and waste disposal) Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments HPAI A(H5N1) in live poultry markets121314 Environmental evidence of exposure risk from slaughtering sites and other live bird market worker areas in Indonesia15 Medium to high risk of exposure Household members of a person with confirmed, probable, or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; known close human contact Examples of behaviors/activities Prolonged unprotected contact with a household member with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Unprotected prolonged bedside care in a hospital with exposure to respiratory secretions (kissing, wiping secretions) from a symptomatic family member in Thailand16 Unprotected, prolonged, close exposure including bedside care to a symptomatic blood-related family member in China and North Sumatra1718 Unprotected, prolonged, close exposure in households to a symptomatic blood-related family member in Pakistan and North Sumatra1819 Generally, spread of avian influenza from one infected person to a close contact has occurred only rarely Working on a farm with poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or sick poultry or cows exposed to those with confirmed A(H5N1) virus infection; no close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Working on a farm with poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection but with no known direct contact Possible contact with poultry or cows of unknown infection status, asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic infection Possible contact with contaminated environment Possible contact with contaminated fomites Possible contact with contaminated waste (feces, urine) Possible contact with contaminated feed or water Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Few HPAI A(H5N1) cases globally fall into a category of “no known poultry exposure” following investigation of exposures and epidemiologic links.
Medium risk of exposure Non-farm occupational exposures to poultry or cows with suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or contaminated animal products (including raw milk); exposure unclear Examples of behaviors/activities These types of exposures could occur when a worker comes into contact with a bird or cow (or raw milk) that does not have a confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, but comes from a farm that has other poultry or cows or animals with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection (or other contaminated raw milk) Transport-hauling milk Working in milk processing or pasteurization plants Working in milk or food testing laboratories Transport-hauling cattle Transport-hauling poultry Working with animals in veterinary clinics Working in slaughter houses Unloading or handling live lactating dairy cows for slaughter Working in holding pens Performing antemortem inspections Performing post-mortem inspections Handling and transporting viscera Removing and transporting udders for further processing or rendering Time-limited visit to live bird market that has poultry or other animals with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Visiting a live bird market (retail poultry stalls or markets selling live poultry) Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments HPAI A(H5N1) in live poultry markets121314 Low to medium risk of exposure Time-limited visit to farm with cows with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or sick cows exposed to those with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; no close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Visitors to farm Delivery staff (feed, other farm-related materials) Animal health outbreak responders Public health responders Nutritionists Feed specialists Health care workers exposed to person with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; known close human contact Examples of behaviors/activities Risk would depend on extent of exposure to infected case, including amount of time that a healthcare worker is in close proximity to the infected case and types of interactions (e.g., performing aerosol-generating procedures) as well as use of appropriate PPE Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Serologic evidence of patient-to-health care worker transmission in Hong Kong in 199720 One case of severe illness was reported in a nurse exposed to an infected patient in Vietnam21 Non-farm recreational exposures to poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or contaminated animal products (including raw milk); known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Fairs Livestock shows/auctions Petting Zoos Backyard flock owners Cockfighting Agritourism (activities carried out on a farm or ranch that allow members of the general public to visit for recreational, entertainment, or educational purposes, including farming, milking cows, ranching, and harvesting, among other activities.
Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Variant influenza A virus infections (non-avian) acquired after exposure to pigs at fairs in the United States22 Environmental sample evidence of transmission from backyard chicken feces in China23 Case in the UK in 2022 associated with captive duck flock24 Low risk of exposure Working on farms without poultry or cows with confirmed or suspected A(H5N1) virus infection or sick poultry or cows exposed to those with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; no known exposure Examples of behaviors/activities Workers or visitors to farm could be at increased risk if cows or other animals appear healthy but have asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic HPAI A(H5N1) infection.
Examples of activities that would typically only occur on farms without active outbreaks of HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection include: Breeding cows or performing artificial insemination procedures Trimming cow hooves Performing layer poultry farm activities (e.g., insemination of hens, egg collection, inspection) Working in hatcheries (e.g., insemination of hens, egg collection, inspection, incubation) Consuming potentially raw or undercooked poultry products or eggs from poultry with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Examples of behaviors/activities In settings where meat and eggs are obtained from poultry with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or sick poultry exposed to those with confirmed HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Eating raw or undercooked meat or eggs Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Consuming raw duck blood and organ products was implicated a potential source of exposure in two cases in Vietnam25 While HPAI A(H5N1) virus has been isolated from poultry muscle and the interior of eggs, a USDA assessment determined that the risk of infection from consumption is low26 Household members of a person with occupational exposure to poultry or cows or other animals with confirmed or suspected HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection; no known close animal contact Examples of behaviors/activities Household exposure via indirect transfer of virus from fomites (e.g., clothing, footwear) obtained from occupational exposure to potentially infected poultry or cows or other animals Human A(H5) case data supporting risk assessments Direct avian-to-human HPAI A(H5N1) virus transmission is the predominant means of human infection.
Epidemiological links between affected premises are indirect from shared people, vehicles, and equipment27 A These risk assessments are based on historical data and limited data from the current outbreak; information in the table will be updated as additional data become available.
B Types of workers may include those who work only one farm as well as those who work or travel between multiple farms: farmers, farm workers, deadstock haulers, milk haulers, other contract haulers, feed deliverers, hoof trimmers, transport vehicles, veterinarians and veterinary staff, nutritionists, feed consultants, animal health responders, public health responders.
Attribution statement N95 and NIOSH Approved are certification marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) registered in the United States and several international jurisdictions.
ON THIS PAGE Overview of recommendations Infection prevention and control Antiviral Treatment Asymptomatic persons with bird or other animal exposures who test positive for influenza A(H5) virus Monitoring and Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) of Persons with Animal Exposures Vaccination Interim Risk Categories by Exposure RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Specimen Collection Antiviral Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Collecting Specimens for Novel Influenza A Virus Testing Health Care Providers MAY 15, 2025 KEY POINTS This document provides interim guidance for clinicians and public health professionals in the United States on how to collect specimens from patients who might be infected with novel influenza A viruses.
Clinicians should notify their state health department immediately if they decide to test a patient for novel influenza A virus infection so that appropriate procedures are followed, including testing and follow up of contacts.
When specimens should be collected Ideally specimens should be collected within 7 days of illness onset Specimens for novel influenza A virus testing should be collected as soon as possible after illness onset, ideally within 7 days of illness onset.
In some circumstances, specimens may be collected later The duration of shedding of novel influenza A viruses in humans is largely unknown, and there are currently limited data describing viral shedding of people infected with these viruses.
Some people infected with seasonal influenza viruses can shed virus for longer periods (e.g., children and immunocompromised persons).
Additionally, prolonged shedding of novel influenza A viruses in the lower respiratory tract has been documented in critically ill patients with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus and avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infections.
For these reasons, specimens for novel influenza A virus testing should be collected from symptomatic persons even if obtained after 7 days from illness onset.
A full list of clinical criteria for novel influenza A virus testing is available.
If infection with a novel influenza A virus with the potential to cause severe disease in humans is suspected, respiratory specimens should be collected while following recommended infection control precautions.
The state health department should be notified as soon as possible, and respiratory specimens should be sent to a public health laboratory such as at the state health department for immediate testing (see guidance below).
More information is available on case definitions.
If infection with a novel influenza A virus with the potential to cause severe disease in humans is suspected, state health departments are encouraged to initiate a public health investigation with animal health partners and should notify CDC promptly.
Keep in mind Antiviral treatment is recommended as soon as possible for outpatients and hospitalized patients who are suspected, probable, or confirmed cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease.
Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for laboratory testing results.
Learn More For questions or concerns about possible human infection in patients with exposures to birds or other animals not listed here , exposures that occur in geographic regions in the United States where HPAI A(H5) viruses have been recently identified are of most concern.
Specimens to collect The following respiratory specimens should be collected as soon as possible after illness onset: (i) a nasopharyngeal swab, and (ii) a nasal swab combined with an oropharyngeal swab (e.g., two swabs collected separately and combined into one viral transport media vial).
(iii) If the person has conjunctivitis (with or without respiratory symptoms), when possible both a conjunctival swab and nasopharyngeal swab should be collected and tested separately.
However, conjunctival swabs may be tested without a respiratory sample when testing with CDC's H5 assay if a paired respiratory sample is not available.
*The nasopharyngeal swab and the combined nasal-throat swabs should be tested separately.
If the above specimens cannot be collected A single nasal swab, or oropharyngeal swab is acceptable.
For patients with severe respiratory disease Patients with severe respiratory disease with suspected novel influenza A virus infection also should have lower respiratory tract specimens (e.g., an endotracheal aspirate or bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from intubated patients or induced sputum) collected, if possible, because these specimens have a higher yield for detecting HPAI A(H5N1) and A(H7N9) viruses and may facilitate detection of other novel influenza A viruses.
For severely ill persons, multiple respiratory tract specimens from different sites should be obtained from the same patient on at least two consecutive days for hospitalized patients to increase the potential for novel influenza A virus detection.
Materials needed Recommended swabs Swab specimens should be collected using swabs with a synthetic tip (e.g., polyester or Dacron®) and an aluminum or plastic shaft.
The swab specimen collection vials should contain 1-3ml of sterile viral transport medium or universal transport medium (e.g., containing protein stabilizer, antibiotics to discourage bacterial and fungal growth, and buffer solution).
Swabs that are not recommended Swabs with cotton tips and wooden shafts are not recommended.
Specimens collected with swabs made of calcium alginate are not acceptable.
Safety considerations Standard, contact, and airborne (placement of the patient in an airborne infection isolation room, and use of fit-tested N95 respirator or higher level of respiratory protection) precautions, and use of eye protection are recommended for management of patients with suspected or laboratory-confirmed novel influenza A virus infection; this includes while collecting respiratory and conjunctival specimens.
Practitioners should adhere to infection control precautions recommended for novel influenza A viruses known to cause severe disease in humans.
Infection Control Guidelines For more information and consult CDC for specific case-by-case infection control recommendations if needed.
Learn More Shipping Specimens should be placed into sterile viral transport media or universal transport media and immediately placed on refrigerant gel-packs or at 4°C (refrigerator) for transport to the laboratory.
BAL specimens in phosphate buffered saline are acceptable.
FOR PUBLIC HEALTH Submitting Specimens for Novel Influenza A Virus Testing Resources Influenza Specimen Collection Reference Guide Download Conjunctival Swab Specimen Collection for Detection of A(H5) Viruses Download Influenza Specimen Collection Poster Download ON THIS PAGE When specimens should be collected Before collecting specimens Specimens to collect Materials needed Safety considerations Resources RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Antiviral Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Clinical Guidance for H5N1 Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Antiviral Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People CDC Newsroom Search CDC Confirms Human Cases of H5 Bird Flu Among Colorado Poultry Workers Print Press Release For Immediate Release: July 14, 2024 Contact: Media Relations (404) 639-3286 July 14, 2024 – Four human cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) (“H5 bird flu”) virus infection in the state of Colorado have been confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
This includes all three presumptive-positive cases reported by that state on Friday, July 12 and a fourth specimen that was later found to be presumptive-positive by the state on Friday.
CDC also is aware of an additional (fifth) presumptive-positive case in Colorado that will be confirmed at CDC once the specimen arrives.
All cases were in farm workers who were involved in the depopulation of poultry at a poultry facility experiencing an outbreak of HPAI H5N1 virus.
A CDC team is on the ground in Colorado, supporting their assessment of the poultry outbreak and associated human cases.
Given current information, CDC believes that the risk to the public from this outbreak remains low.
These cases again underscore the risk of exposure to infected animals.
There are no unexpected increases in flu activity otherwise in Colorado, or in other states affected by H5 bird flu outbreaks in cows and poultry.
Background on Cases These workers reported symptoms after being exposed to H5N1 virus-infected poultry.
All workers who tested positive reported mild illness.
The workers reported conjunctivitis and eye tearing, as well as more typical flu symptoms of fever, chills, coughing and sore throat/runny nose.
Additional cases may be reported and subsequently confirmed as monitoring and testing is ongoing.
CDC has deployed a multidisciplinary bilingual field team of nine people including epidemiologists, veterinarians, clinicians and an industrial hygienist to Colorado to support their public health response to the outbreak among poultry farm workers.
There is ongoing monitoring of workers as part of this assessment and additional specimens are being tested – work that is a continuation of the close partnership between human and animal public health officials at the local, state and Federal levels.
These are the first cases of H5 virus infection in poultry workers (as opposed to dairy workers) since 2022.
The first ever U.S.
case of H5 in a poultry worker was reported in Colorado during April 2022.
On July 3, 2024, Colorado also reported a case of H5 in a dairy worker on an affected farm, so that state is experiencing ongoing H5N1 outbreaks on dairy and poultry farms.
The designation of the influenza virus neuraminidase (the N in the subtype) is pending influenza genetic sequencing at CDC.
Attempts to sequence the virus in the clinical specimens are underway and will be made available within 1-2 days if successful.
Additional analysis will look for any genetic changes to the virus that could alter the agency’s risk assessment.
CDC’s recommendations related to H5 have not changed at this time.
An assessment of these cases will help inform whether this situation warrants a change to the human health risk assessment.
CDC has more than 170 staff deployed to the agency’s H5N1 Response.
Updates will be provided as information becomes available.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People CDC Newsroom Search CDC Confirms Second Human H5 Bird Flu Case in Michigan; Third Case Tied to Dairy Outbreak Risk to general public remains low Print Press Release For Immediate Release: Thursday, May 30, 2024 Contact: Media Relations (404) 639-3286 May 30, 2024 – A second human case of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) virus infection has been identified in the state of Michigan.
This is the third human case associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
None of the three cases are associated with the others.
As with the previous two cases (one in Texas, one in Michigan), the person is a dairy farm worker with exposure to infected cows, making this another instance of probable cow-to-person spread.
This is the first human case of H5 in the United States to report more typical symptoms of acute respiratory illness associated with influenza virus infection, including A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC continues to closely monitor available data from influenza surveillance systems , particularly in affected states, and there has been no sign of unusual influenza activity in people, including no increase in emergency room visits for influenza and no increase in laboratory detection of human influenza cases.
Based on the information available at this time, this case does not change CDC’s current A(H5N1) bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public because all three sporadic cases had direct contact with infected cows.
Risk depends on exposure, and in this case, the relevant exposure is to infected animals.
The risk to members of the general public who do not have exposure to infected animals remains low.
However, this development underscores the importance of recommended precautions in people with exposure to infected or potentially infected animals.
People with close or prolonged, unprotected exposures to infected birds or other animals (including livestock), or to environments contaminated by infected birds or other infected animals, are at greater risk of infection and should take precautions.
Case Background A dairy worker with exposure to H5N1-infected cows (at a different farm from the case last week) reported symptoms to local health officials.
The patient reported upper respiratory tract symptoms including cough without fever, and eye discomfort with watery discharge.
The patient was given antiviral treatment with oseltamivir, is isolating at home, and their symptoms are resolving.
Household contacts of the patient have not developed symptoms, are being monitored for illness, and have been offered oseltamivir.
No other workers at the same farm have reported symptoms, and all staff are being monitored.
There is no indication of person-to-person spread of A(H5N1) viruses at this time.
Specimens were collected from the patient; one of which was positive for influenza A(H5) virus using the CDC test at the state health department laboratory.
The specimens were forwarded to CDC for further testing.
They were received on May 29, and testing results that night confirmed A(H5) virus infection.
Michigan was then notified of the results.
The designation of the influenza virus neuraminidase (the N in the subtype) is pending genetic sequencing at CDC and results will be made available within 1-2 days, if successful.
Additional genetic analysis will look for any changes to the virus that could change the agency’s risk assessment.
CDC Activities and Risk Assessment This case was detected through Michigan’s active monitoring program for people exposed to infected livestock, in collaboration with CDC.
The identification of an additional case of H5 is not surprising and shows the importance of a proactive public health response.
Given the extent of the spread of this virus in dairy cows, additional human cases in people with higher risk exposures would not be surprising.
A CDC priority right now is to prevent additional cases of A(H5N1) infections in dairy herd workers, who are at higher risk of exposure.
CDC has previously provided updated interim recommendations for worker protection to include those who work with dairy cows and asked states to provide personal protective equipment to farmworkers.
In addition, the agency is conducting ongoing outreach to groups representing farmworkers.
CDC Recommendations People should wear recommended personal protective equipment when interacting with infected or potentially infected animals and monitor their health for 10 days after their most recent exposure.
Learn more about CDC’s recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
People should avoid close, long, or unprotected exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows).
People should also avoid unprotected exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized (“raw”) milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus.
More information is available on the CDC website at H5N1 Bird Flu: Current Situation Summary.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance for Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease or with Potential to Cause Severe Human Disease, and Use of Antiviral Medications for Post-exposure Prophylaxis Health Care Providers JULY 3, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW This document provides guidance for follow-up and antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis of close contacts of persons infected with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease or with the potential to cause severe human disease.
Overview Notice CDC has developed updated interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in animals.
Interim Recommendations FOR EVERYONE Current Situation Summary This interim guidance is based on expert opinion and currently available published and unpublished data for antiviral treatment and chemoprophylaxis of seasonal, pandemic, and novel influenza A virus infections.
Limited, non-sustained human-to-human transmission of some novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease likely occurred or cannot be excluded in some human case clusters that have occurred in the past worldwide.
Sufficient supplies of influenza antiviral medications that are expected to be effective against novel influenza A viruses are available.
The public health goal of this interim guidance is to reduce the risk of human-to-human spread of novel influenza A viruses from infected persons in the United States.
It is specific to a scenario in which there are sporadic cases of human infections associated with exposures to infected domestic poultry, wild birds, dairy cows, or other infected animals.
Definition of Close Contacts Close contacts are defined as persons with close (within 6 feet) within a room or care area or other enclosed space (e.g., vehicle), who had unprotected (without use of recommended personal protective equipment) exposure to a person who is a symptomatic confirmed or probable human case of novel influenza A virus infection for a prolonged period of time, or who had direct contact with infectious secretions while the case-patient was likely to be infectious (beginning 1 day prior to illness onset and continuing until resolution of illness).
Investigations of Human Infection Information on definitions of confirmed or probable human cases of novel influenza A virus infection.
Case Definitions In general, decisions to begin antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis should be guided by the risk stratification described below based on observational data for reported cases of human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) and A(H5N1) viruses, and on data from seasonal influenza studies.
The risk of infection following close contact with a confirmed or probable novel influenza A case-patient is higher for persons with prolonged, unprotected exposures (e.g., without use of respiratory and eye protection) than for close contacts (e.g., health care personnel) who were wearing recommended personal protective equipment.
KEEP READING Recommended Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Table.
Risk by exposure to inform clinical decision-making The purpose of this table is to help clinicians and public health practitioners to categorize the risk for novel influenza A virus infection among exposed human close contacts of symptomatic1 confirmed or probable cases of human infection with novel influenza A virus, to inform decisions about prescription of antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis to close contacts.
This risk stratification table is for clinical purposes and differs from other tables that provide a framework for epidemiologic assessment of individual risk for novel influenza A virus infection for use by public health practitioners to help determine how best to prioritize monitoring and investigation efforts when resources are limited.
Exposure Category Transmission Risk Groups at Risk Highest Risk Recognized risk of transmission Household members2 or other persons with prolonged, unprotected close contact to a symptomatic confirmed or probable case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus in a room or other enclosed space, including a healthcare setting.
Healthcare personnel3 with prolonged unprotected close contact to a symptomatic confirmed or probable case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus in a healthcare setting.
Moderate Risk Variable risk of transmission Persons4,5 with prolonged, unprotected close contact to a symptomatic confirmed or probable case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus outside of a room or other enclosed space.
Laboratory personnel6 with unprotected direct or close exposure to a novel influenza A virus.
Low Risk Transmission unlikely Persons, including health care personnel, wearing all recommended personal protective equipment, with prolonged close contact to a symptomatic, confirmed, probable or suspected case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus in a room or other enclosed space, including in healthcare settings.
Persons who are not household members, such as social, work, or school contacts with a short duration of unprotected, close contact to a symptomatic confirmed or probable, case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus in a non-hospital setting outside the home (e.g., in a community, school, or workplace environment).
Confirmed and probable cases whose symptom status was unknown at the time of exposure should be treated as symptomatic for purposes of follow up and management of close contacts.
Household members who have prolonged unprotected close contact to a symptomatic person with confirmed or probable novel influenza A virus infection may be at higher risk of exposure and infection than others because of the duration of exposure in a closed setting.
Health care personnel with prolonged unprotected close contact to a symptomatic person with confirmed or probable novel influenza A virus infection may be at higher risk of infection than others through caring for patients with severe illness who may have levels of virus in the respiratory tract.
Persons with prolonged unprotected close contact to a symptomatic person with confirmed or probable novel influenza A virus infection and mild illness may have a higher risk of infection than those with short duration of exposure.
Persons with prolonged, unprotected close contact to a symptomatic person with confirmed or probable human infection with a novel influenza A virus outside of a room or other enclosed space have an unknown risk of infection and need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
Laboratory personnel with unprotected direct or close exposure to a person with confirmed or probable novel influenza A virus infection have an unknown risk of infection depending upon the specific exposures and need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
Follow-up of Close Contacts of a Novel Influenza A Case-Patient Public health personnel should attempt to identify as soon as possible and monitor all close contacts of symptomatic confirmed or probable cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe or potentially severe human disease for new illness.
Identified close contacts should be monitored daily for illness for 10 days after the date of the last known exposure to a symptomatic confirmed or probable case.
Measured temperature and presence of acute respiratory symptoms should be assessed daily during this period.
Any close contacts of a symptomatic confirmed or probable case who develop any new illness signs or symptoms, especially respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing), conjunctivitis, or other symptoms, with or without fever (see clinical criteria) should be referred for prompt medical evaluation and testing for novel influenza A virus infection.
To facilitate investigation, and if resources are available, close contacts of suspected cases (especially those with a high index of suspicion) also may be identified and monitored for any new illness signs or symptoms, especially respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing), conjunctivitis, or other symptoms, with or without fever, while the results of laboratory testing are pending.
Rationale for duration of monitoring of close contacts of a novel influenza A case-patient Available data suggest that the estimated incubation period for human infection with avian influenza A(H5N1) and A(H7N9) viruses is generally 3 to 5 days, but has been reported to be 7-10 days123456789101112.
Limited non-sustained person-to-person transmission of A(H7N9) virus could not be excluded in some family clusters .
Limited non-sustained person-to-person transmission of A(H5N1) virus has been reported in several countries following close, prolonged unprotected contact with a severely ill A(H5N1) patient, including in household and hospital settings61011.
Post-exposure Antiviral Prophylaxis of Asymptomatic Close Contacts Oral oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis should be provided to close contacts of a symptomatic confirmed or probable novel influenza A case-patient as soon as possible according to risk of exposure.
In highest-risk exposure groups, post-exposure prophylaxis should be administered.
In moderate-risk exposure groups, post-exposure prophylaxis can be considered on a case-by-case basis.
In low-risk exposure groups, post-exposure prophylaxis is not routinely recommended.
Decisions to begin antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis for persons in moderate- and low-risk exposure groups should be based on clinical judgment, with consideration given to the type of exposure and to whether the close contact is at higher risk for complications from influenza.
KEEP READING Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians Antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis should begin as soon as possible (ideally within 48 hours) after the first exposure to the symptomatic confirmed or probable case.
Oral oseltamivir at treatment dosing frequency (one dose twice daily) is recommended instead of the typical antiviral chemoprophylaxis regimen (once daily) for seasonal influenza.
All human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in the U.S.
have been with viruses susceptible to oseltamivir.
Antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir (twice daily) should be continued for 5 or 10 days.
If the exposure was time-limited and not ongoing, the recommended duration is 5 days from the last known exposure.
If the exposure is likely to be ongoing (e.g., household setting), a duration of 10 days is recommended because of the potential for prolonged infectiousness from the novel influenza A case-patient.
Specific dosage recommendations for treatment by age group are available at Recommended Dosage and Duration of Influenza Antiviral Medications for Treatment or Chemoprophylaxis.
Refer to the treatment dosing (twice daily) as provided for seasonal influenza.
This recommendation for oral oseltamivir with twice daily antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis dosing is based on limited data in animals that support higher chemoprophylaxis dosing for avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infection13, and on the desire to reduce the potential for development of antiviral resistance while receiving once daily chemoprophylaxis141516.
To support post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir using twice daily dosing for novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease, including highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, CDC issued Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for oseltamivir.
Antiviral Treatment of Symptomatic Close Contacts Close contacts of a symptomatic confirmed or probable novel influenza A case-patient who develop any new respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing), conjunctivitis, or other symptoms, with or without fever (see clinical criteria) should be promptly tested for novel influenza A virus infection).
Close contacts of a symptomatic confirmed or probable novel influenza A case-patient who develop any new respiratory symptoms (with or without fever) and who are not receiving antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis should receive empiric antiviral treatment as soon as possible with oral oseltamivir.
More antiviral information is available at Interim Guidance on the Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease.) Symptomatic persons should be isolated at home except to seek medical care and advised to avoid contact with other persons until their illness is resolved.
New Symptoms in close contacts after Use of an Antiviral Agent If a close contact develops respiratory symptoms or has worsening of symptoms after or during use of an influenza antiviral medication, contact with other persons should be minimized and appropriate infection prevention and control measures should be used in healthcare settings.
More information is available at Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Patients with Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease).
A newly symptomatic close contact should have an initial respiratory specimen collected promptly and sent to the state public health department for novel influenza A virus testing, and potentially for antiviral resistance testing.
A previously symptomatic close contact with worsening of symptoms should have a second respiratory specimen collected promptly and sent to the state public health department for novel influenza A virus testing, and potentially for antiviral resistance testing.
If a close contact tests positive for a novel influenza A virus associated with severe disease in humans (e.g., A(H5N1), A(H5N6) or A(H7N9) virus) and had taken oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis for 3 or more days before becoming symptomatic17, oseltamivir should be stopped as soon as treatment with inhaled zanamivir (twice daily) or oral baloxavir can be initiated.
This is because some novel influenza A viruses may rapidly become oseltamivir-resistant (and potentially peramivir-resistant) and remain zanamivir-susceptible and baloxavir-susceptible.
Investigation for antiviral resistance should be initiated immediately (in conjunction with the CDC Influenza Division), and infection prevention and control measures recommended for patients with novel influenza A virus infection should be implemented.
More information is available at Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease.) Questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
ON THIS PAGE Overview Definition of Close Contacts Follow-up of Close Contacts of a Novel Influenza A Case-Patient Post-exposure Antiviral Prophylaxis of Asymptomatic Close Contacts Antiviral Treatment of Symptomatic Close Contacts New Symptoms in close contacts after Use of an Antiviral Agent RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Specimen Collection Antiviral Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Clinical Guidance for H5N1 Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Infection Control Guidance SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance on the Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease Health Care Providers JULY 3, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW This guidance provides recommendations for treatment of novel influenza A virus infections associated with severe human disease in the United States.
Summary This document provides guidance for antiviral treatment of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease (examples include but are not limited to highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses and avian influenza A(H7N9) virus).
These recommendations are based on available data on the treatment of infections caused by influenza viruses, including seasonal, pandemic, and novel influenza A viruses, and expert opinion.
Antiviral treatment is recommended as soon as possible for outpatients and hospitalized patients who are suspected, probable, or confirmed cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease.
This guidance reflects recently updated novel influenza A case definitions (visit Avian Influenza A Virus Case Definitions).
CDC will continue to evaluate new information as it becomes available and will update this guidance as needed.
Updated information will be provided on CDC's Avian Influenza Current Situation Summary.
For guidance on investigation of close contacts of case-patients, visit Interim Guidance on Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease and the Use of Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis.
CDC has issued information about Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for oseltamivir treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) of pandemic influenza A viruses and novel influenza A viruses with pandemic potential Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC.
Background To date, novel influenza A viruses such as highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses and avian influenza A(H7N9)es virus that have infected people have been susceptible to antivirals recommended for treatment of seasonal influenza.
There are no data from randomized clinical trials of antiviral treatment of outpatients or hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infections.
Antiviral treatment recommendations are based upon available observational studies (see Rationale section) and indirect evidence from studies of antiviral treatment of seasonal influenza.
Most avian influenza A(H7N9), A(H5N1), and A(H5N6) viruses are susceptible to the neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir, peramivir and zanamivir) and baloxavir, but are often resistant to the adamantanes (amantadine and rimantadine).
Therefore, amantadine and rimantadine are not recommended for treatment of novel influenza A virus infections.
Outpatients Initiation of antiviral treatment with oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for symptomatic outpatients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases of infection with a novel influenza A virus associated with severe human disease.
The standard dose of oseltamivir for adolescents and adults is 75 mg twice daily for 5 days.
For information on oseltamivir dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please visit: Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC and Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.
For a patient who is immunocompromised, combination antiviral treatment (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered because of the increased potential for emergence of antiviral resistance in immunocompromised persons treated with monotherapy for influenza.
Decisions to initiate antiviral treatment for untreated outpatients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases with uncomplicated disease, in whom fever is absent and symptoms are nearly resolved, should be based on clinical judgment.
Because of the potential for progression to severe disease, oseltamivir treatment is recommended as soon as possible for persons with conjunctivitis or acute respiratory illness.
For questions regarding clinical management, antiviral dosing, including if antiviral resistance is a concern, contact the CDC Influenza Division for consultation with a medical officer via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
Hospitalized Patients Initiation of antiviral treatment with oral or enterically administered oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for hospitalized patients who are confirmed, probable, or suspected cases of infection with novel influenza A virus associated with severe human disease, regardless of time since illness onset.
Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for laboratory testing results.
(For information regarding specimen collection and laboratory testing, visit the Interim Guidance for Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans.) For information on oseltamivir dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please visit: Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir | Bird Flu | CDC and Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.
The standard dose of oseltamivir for adolescents and adults is 75 mg twice daily for 5 days.
However, the optimal duration and dosing are uncertain for patients with severe disease.
Human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) and avian influenza A(H7N9) viruses have been shown to be associated with higher virus levels and longer duration of viral replication (particularly in the lower respiratory tract disease) in hospitalized patients than with seasonal influenza A or B virus infection,12345 Combination antiviral treatment (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered for hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infection because it is possible that some novel influenza A viruses might become resistant to oseltamivir and peramivir during antiviral treatment with one of these agents 36789 Oseltamivir resistance has been reported in hospitalized patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection, resulting in fatal outcome 3.
If a hospitalized patient treated with oseltamivir or peramivir manifests progressive lower respiratory disease, the presence of a resistant virus should be considered.
After consultation with CDC's Influenza Division, investigation for antiviral resistance should be performed.
Combination treatment with a neuraminidase inhibitor and baloxavir did not have clinical benefit compared with neuraminidase inhibitor and placebo in a randomized clinical trial in hospitalized patients with seasonal influenza, but the addition of baloxavir reduced duration of infectious viral shedding 10 Limited data suggest that oseltamivir administered orally or by oro/naso gastric tube is well absorbed in critically ill influenza patients, including those in the intensive care unit, on continuous renal replacement therapy, and/or on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.1112131415161718 However, for patients who cannot tolerate or absorb oral or enterically-administered oseltamivir because of suspected or known gastric stasis, malabsorption, or gastrointestinal bleeding, IV peramivir is an alternative.
Any questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, combination antiviral treatment dosing, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division for consultation with a medical officer via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).
Rationale Oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible for treatment of symptomatic patients who are suspected, confirmed, or probable cases of infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease based on observational studies of patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection.
An observational study of HPAI A(H5N1) patients in Indonesia (N=127) reported that oseltamivir treatment started within 2 days of symptom onset was significantly associated with lower mortality compared to patients who received oseltamivir treatment started later (e.g., ≥5-6 days after symptom onset).19 An observational study of a multi-country registry of HPAI A(H5N1) patients reported that oseltamivir treatment (n=98) was significantly associated with survival compared with no treatment (n=123), and survival was highest when oseltamivir was started within 2 days of symptom onset20.
An observational study of an expanded multi-country registry of HPAI A(H5N1) patients reported that oseltamivir treatment initiated within 2 days of symptom onset in patients without respiratory failure when treatment was started (n=113) was significantly associated with survival21.
There are no data for baloxavir treatment of patients with HPAI A(H5N1) virus infection or avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection.
One small case series (n=5) in critically ill hospitalized patients infected with HPAI A(H5N6) virus, clade 2.3.4.4b, who were treated daily with oseltamivir (median time from symptom onset to starting oseltamivir: 5 days) and baloxavir was added every 3 days (median time from symptom onset to starting baloxavir: 11 days) reported that the addition of baloxavir reduced A(H5N6) viral RNA levels in sputum and levels of some cytokines in sputum and serum, although 3 of the 5 patients died22.
Observational studies of antiviral treatment of patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection have yielded mixed results.
An observational study of 305 patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection hospitalized in a single province in China during 2013-2017 that used time-dependent survival models reported no significant association between time to starting antiviral treatment with neuraminidase inhibitors and survival24.
A single center observational study of 160 patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection hospitalized during 2013-2017 in China reported that starting antiviral treatment with oseltamivir within 2 days of symptom onset was significantly associated with decreased risk of death25 .
Other Considerations Clinical judgment and virologic testing of lower respiratory tract specimens by RT-PCR should guide decisions to consider treatment regimens longer than 5 days for hospitalized patients with severe and prolonged illness.
For patients with lower respiratory tract disease, lower respiratory tract specimens such as bronchoalveolar lavage fluid or endotracheal aspirate are preferred; a combined nasal and oropharyngeal (throat) swab specimen may be collected if lower respiratory specimens are not available.
Lower respiratory tract specimens may yield the diagnosis when testing of upper respiratory tract specimens produce negative results in hospitalized patients with severe disease.
Multiple respiratory tract specimens collected on different days should be tested if novel influenza A virus infection associated with severe disease is suspected without another definitive diagnosis.
Longer treatment regimens might be necessary in severely immunosuppressed persons (e.g., hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients) who may have prolonged influenza viral replication.
Such patients are at risk of developing antiviral-resistant virus infection with monotherapy.
Although no data from clinical trials are available, combination treatment of immunocompromised patients using antivirals with different mechanisms of action (e.g., oseltamivir and baloxavir) can be considered.
Limited data do not suggest clinical benefit of higher antiviral dosing.
A higher dose of oseltamivir has been recommended by some experts (e.g., 150 mg twice daily in adults with normal renal function instead of the standard 75 mg twice daily dose) for treatment of influenza in immunocompromised patients and in severely ill hospitalized patients26.
However, oral or enterically administered oseltamivir has been reported to be adequately absorbed in critically ill adults, with standard doses producing therapeutic blood levels11.
Although the higher dose was generally well-tolerated and not associated with severe adverse events, limited data suggest that higher dosing may not provide additional clinical benefit for seasonal influenza or for pandemic 2009 influenza A (H1N1)2728.
Studies indicate that the exposure to oseltamivir carboxylate (the active metabolite of oseltamivir) is similar between obese and non-obese subjects for both 75 mg and 150 mg doses given twice daily293031.
Inhaled zanamivir is not recommended because of the lack of data for use in patients with severe seasonal influenza.
There are insufficient data regarding the efficacy or effectiveness of intravenous (IV) peramivir for hospitalized seasonal influenza patients.
Use of two neuraminidase inhibitors (e.g., inhaled zanamivir in combination with oseltamivir or peramivir, or use of oseltamivir and peramivir) is not recommended because of data suggesting that antagonism may occur when 2 neuraminidase inhibitors are given simultaneously compared to monotherapy in outpatients32.
If used to treat hospitalized patients with novel influenza A virus infection, this dose of IV peramivir is recommended for a minimum of 5 days (not a single dose as is recommended for outpatients with uncomplicated illness).
ON THIS PAGE Summary Background Outpatients Hospitalized Patients Rationale Other Considerations RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Specimen Collection Clinical Guidance for H5N1 Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses Antiviral Post-exposure Prophylaxis of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Clinical Guidance for H5N1 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People CDC Newsroom Search CDC Reports Second Human Case of H5 Bird Flu Tied to Dairy Cow Outbreak CDC’s Risk Assessment for the General Public Remains Low Print Press Release For Immediate Release: Wednesday, May 22, 2024 Contact: Media Relations (404) 639-3286 media@cdc.gov May 22, 2024 – A human case of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) (“H5 bird flu”) virus infection in the United States has been identified in the state of Michigan.
While a nasal swab from the person tested negative for influenza in Michigan, an eye swab from the patient was shipped to CDC and tested positive for influenza A(H5) virus, indicating an eye infection.
Similar to the Texas case, the patient only reported eye symptoms.
CDC has been watching influenza surveillance systems closely, particularly in affected states, and there has been no sign of unusual influenza activity in people, including in syndromic surveillance.
Based on the information available, this infection does not change CDC’s current H5N1 bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public, which the agency considers to be low.
However, this development underscores the importance of recommended precautions in people with exposure to infected or potentially infected animals.
People with close or prolonged, unprotected exposures to infected birds or other animals (including livestock), or to environments contaminated by infected birds or other animals, are at greater risk of infection.
Case Background A dairy worker who was being monitored because of their work exposure to H5N1-infected cattle reported symptoms to local health officials.
Two specimens were collected from the patient.
An upper respiratory tract specimen collected from the worker’s nose was negative for influenza virus at the state health department laboratory.
The eye specimen was sent to CDC for testing because it is one of a few labs where those specimens can be used with the CDC A(H5) test.
The specimen was received by CDC and testing results confirmed A(H5) virus infection.
The nasal specimen was retested at CDC and confirmed to be negative for influenza.
The state was then notified of the results.
The designation of the influenza virus neuraminidase (the N in the subtype) is pending genetic sequencing at CDC.
Attempts to sequence the virus in the clinical specimen are underway and will be made available within 1-2 days if successful.
Additional genetic analysis will look for any changes to the virus that could alter the agency’s risk assessment.
Conjunctivitis (eye infection) has been associated with previous human infections with avian influenza A viruses and is part of the current CDC case definition for A(H5N1) surveillance.
While it’s not known exactly how eye infections result from avian influenza exposures, it may be from contamination of the eye(s), potentially with a splash of contaminated fluid, or touching the eye(s) with something contaminated with A(H5N1) virus, such as a hand.
High levels of A(H5N1) virus have been found in unpasteurized milk from H5N1-infected cows.
CDC Activities This case was detected through the state’s implementation of CDC’s recommended monitoring and testing strategies in exposed persons.
In addition to enhanced and targeted surveillance, CDC also has: Held numerous weekly engagements with state and local HDs around increasing their preparedness posture Updated interim recommendations for worker protection to include those who work with dairy cows Issued a Health Alert Notice (HAN) on identification of human infection and recommendations for investigations/response Held a call with states asking them to move from preparedness to readiness Updated interim recommendations for worker protection to include those who work in slaughterhouses Conducted numerous calls with groups representing farmworkers Asked states to furnish PPE for farmworkers Announced incentives for workers who participate in public health research efforts into the outbreak Asked states to work with clinical labs to increase submissions of positive influenza virus samples to public health labs for subtyping Given the high levels of A(H5N1) virus in raw milk from infected cows, and the extent of the spread of this virus in dairy cows, similar additional human cases could be identified.
Sporadic human infections with no ongoing spread will not change the CDC risk assessment for the U.S.
general public, which CDC considers to be low.
CDC Recommendations People should avoid close, long, or unprotected exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows).
People should also avoid unprotected exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized (“raw”) milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus.
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
CDC also has updated recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE) .
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person’s risk and containing the overall public health risk.
More information is available on the CDC website at H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation.
This was reported on April 1, 2024.
The person reported eye redness as their only symptom, consistent with conjunctivitis, and recovered.
Learn more about this case in a letter published in the New England Journal of Medicine titled Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Infection in a Dairy Farm Worker .
The April 1 case was actually the second human case of A(H5N1) reported in the United States.
The first human case of A(H5N1) bird flu in the United States was reported in 2022 in a person in Colorado who had direct exposure to poultry and who was involved in depopulating poultry with presumptive A(H5N1) bird flu.
The 2022 human case was not related to dairy cattle.
The person only reported fatigue without any other symptoms and recovered.
Learn more at U.S.
Case of Human Avian Influenza A(H5) Virus Reported.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC’s world-leading experts protect lives and livelihoods, national security and the U.S.
economy by providing timely, commonsense information, and rapidly identifying and responding to diseases, including outbreaks and illnesses.
CDC drives science, public health research, and data innovation in communities across the country by investing in local initiatives to protect everyone’s health.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease Health Care Providers MAR.
9, 2022 WHAT TO KNOW This guidance provides recommendations for infection prevention and control in healthcare settings for patients who may be infected with a novel influenza A virus (i.e., an influenza A virus of animal origin that has not recently been circulating among humans) associated with severe disease.
The prevention measures outlined in this guidance will help prevent transmission to health care personnel, other patients, and visitors.
Patients who may be infected with novel influenza A viruses include confirmed cases, probable cases, and suspect cases/cases under investigation for infection with a novel influenza A virus associated with severe disease.
Interim Guidance Background Current Situation Summary For information on the most recent avian influenza developments specific to the United States, please visit the Current Situation Summary page.
These recommendations will be updated as additional information on transmissibility, epidemiology, available treatment, or vaccine options for novel influenza A viruses becomes available.
Among important differences from seasonal influenza guidance are recommendations for Contact and Airborne Precautions.
Note that recommendations in this guidance are in addition to Standard Precautions.
Information on Standard Precautions (can be found in the following documents: Guideline for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings Core Infection Prevention and Control Practices for Safe Healthcare Delivery in All Settings – Recommendations of the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee This interim guidance was developed based on existing infection prevention and control guidelines, currently available scientific evidence, and expert opinion.
Definition of Healthcare Settings Definition of Healthcare Settings — Refers to places where healthcare is delivered.
Healthcare settings include but are not limited to acute-care hospitals; long-term acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, long-term care facilities, such as nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities; physicians' offices; urgent-care centers; outpatient clinics; home healthcare (i.e., care provided at home by professional healthcare providers), and vehicles where healthcare is delivered (e.g., mobile clinics).
They also include specific sites within non-healthcare settings where healthcare is routinely delivered (e.g., a medical clinic embedded within a workplace or school).
Definition of Healthcare Personnel (HCP) Definition of Healthcare Personnel (HCP) – HCP refers to all paid and unpaid persons serving in healthcare settings who have the potential for direct or indirect exposure to patients or infectious materials, including body substances (e.g., blood, tissue, and specific body fluids); contaminated medical supplies, devices, and equipment; contaminated environmental surfaces; or contaminated air.
These HCP include, but are not limited to, emergency medical service personnel, nurses, nursing assistants, physicians, technicians, therapists, phlebotomists, pharmacists, students and trainees, contractual staff not employed by the healthcare facility, and persons not directly involved in patient care, but who could be exposed to infectious agents that can be transmitted in the healthcare setting (e.g., clerical, dietary, environmental services, laundry, security, engineering and facilities management, administrative, billing, and volunteer personnel).
Information and Definitions of Facemask and Respirator available in the Appendix on this page.
Fundamental Elements to Prevent Transmission Expand All Minimize Potential Exposures Implement Engineering Controls Monitor and Manage Ill and Exposed Healthcare Personnel` Train and Educate Healthcare Personnel Ensure Adherence to Infection Control Practices (i.e., Standard Precautions, plus Contact and Airborne Precautions) Implement Environmental Infection Control Manage Visitor Access and Movement Within the Facility Monitor Severe Respiratory Infections in the Healthcare Setting Appendix: Additional Information about Influenza Information about Facemasks: FDA – Masks and N95 Respirators, FDA A facemask is a product that covers the wearer's nose and mouth.
Facemasks are for use as source control and some may not be considered personal protective equipment.
Facemasks may or may not meet any fluid barrier or filtration efficiency levels; therefore, they are not a substitute for N95 respirators or other filtering facepiece respirators, which provide respiratory protection to the wearer, or for surgical masks, which provide fluid barrier protection to the wearer.
Information about Respirators: FDA – Surgical Masks and N95 Respirators, FDA A respirator is a personal protective device that is worn on the face, covers at least the nose and mouth, and is used to reduce the wearer's risk of inhaling hazardous airborne particles (including dust particles and infectious agents), gases, or vapors.
Respirators are approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
A commonly used respirator is a disposable N95 filtering facepiece respirator (commonly referred to as an N95).
Surgical N95 respirators are NIOSH-approved disposable N95 filtering facepiece respirators that also meet the FDA requirements for fluid penetration, flammability, and biocompatibility.
Surgical N95 respirators are recommended for use by healthcare personnel who need protection from both airborne and fluid hazards, such as splashes or sprays.
Reusable respirators include elastomeric half facepiece respirators and powered air-purifying respirators.
To work properly, tight fitting respirators must be specially fitted for each person who wears one (this is called "fit-testing" and is usually done in a workplace where respirators are used).
NIOSH information about respirators.
ON THIS PAGE Interim Guidance Background Fundamental Elements to Prevent Transmission Appendix: Additional Information about Influenza RELATED PAGES Clinical Overview Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Bird Flu Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation For Everyone SEPT.
16, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW H5 bird flu is widespread in wild birds worldwide and is causing outbreaks in poultry and U.S.
dairy cows with several recent human cases in U.S.
dairy and poultry workers.
While the current public health risk is low, CDC is watching the situation carefully and working with states to monitor people with animal exposures.
CDC is using its flu surveillance systems to monitor for H5 bird flu activity in people.
Current situation H5N1 Bird Flu Human Cases in U.S.
On July 7, 2025, CDC streamlined H5N1 bird flu updates with routine influenza data updates and updated reporting cadences to reflect the current public health situation.
As such, the following changes were made to this page: Data on the number of people monitored and tested for bird flu are reported monthly.
USDA data on HPAI detections in animals will no longer be reported on the CDC website.
These data can be found on USDA's website .
CDC will continue to report any additional human cases of H5 bird flu here and in FluView.
National situation summary Loading...
Please complete your selection to continue.
Situation summary of confirmed and probable human cases since 2024 Loading...
Confirmed Cases Probable Cases State or territory - Select - National California Colorado Iowa Louisiana Michigan Missouri Nevada Oregon Texas Washington Wisconsin Wyoming Please complete your selection to continue.
When a case tests positive for H5 at a public health laboratory but testing at CDC is not able to confirm H5 infection, per Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) guidance , a case is reported as probable.
National flu surveillance (since February 25, 2024) Note: National flu surveillance data will be updated on the first Friday of every month.
Please complete your selection to continue.
Targeted H5 surveillance (since March 24, 2024) Note: Targeted H5 surveillance data will be updated on the first Friday of every month.
Please complete your selection to continue.
Detections in Animals For data on HPAI detections in animals, visit the USDA website .
What's New View More ON THIS PAGE Current situation What's New Bird Flu in People SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All About Bird Flu For Everyone DEC.
30, 2024 KEY POINTS Bird flu is a disease caused by avian influenza A viruses that usually spread between birds, not people.
One subtype of bird flu, caused by avian influenza A(H5) virus, is spreading worldwide in wild birds and causing sporadic outbreaks in U.S.
poultry and dairy cows.
In addition to spreading to an increasing number of mammals, H5 bird flu has caused some rare human infections.
The current public health risk is low for H5 bird flu, and CDC is watching the situation carefully and working with states to monitor people with exposures to animals that are infected or potentially infected with avian influenza A viruses.
Overview Wild water birds are the hosts of avian influenza A viruses.
Infected birds and other animals can spread the virus through their mucous, saliva or feces (poop).
People rarely get bird flu, but when they do, it's most often through direct unprotected contact (not wearing recommended personal protective equipment, PPE) with infected birds or other infected animals.
Human illness from bird flu has ranged from mild symptoms to severe illness, resulting in death.
However, most human cases of H5 bird flu in the United States have been mild, to date.
No person-to-person spread has been identified in the United States, but limited person-to-person spread has been reported in the past in other countries.
Limited person-to-person spread means the virus might spread to one or two people but does not continue to spread.
Types Influenza type A viruses can be further classified into subtypes.
Subtypes of avian influenza A viruses known to have caused human infections include H5, H6, H7, H9, and H10 viruses.
KEEP READING Avian Influenza Type A Signs and symptoms The reported signs and symptoms of avian influenza A virus infections in humans have ranged from no symptoms or mild symptoms to moderate to severe disease and complications, including resulting in death.
cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection.
Less common symptoms include diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting.
*Fever may not always be present Signs and symptoms of moderate to severe disease high fever shortness of breath or difficulty breathing altered consciousness.
seizures More information about symptoms of avian influenza A(H5) virus infections in people, including timing of symptoms, and complications, is available at Signs and Symptoms of Bird Flu in People.
Exposure risks Exposure to infected sick or dead animals is the main risk factor for getting bird flu.
Exposure to surfaces contaminated with animal secretions/excretions also is another risk.
Eating undercooked or uncooked poultry, eggs, or consuming unpasteurized milk from infected dairy cows, could also be an exposure risk for infection with avian influenza A viruses.
Consuming properly prepared and cooked (or pasteurized) products is safe.
People at risk People with close or prolonged contact with infected birds or other infected animals or contaminated environments, including people with job- or recreational-related exposures, are at greater risk of getting sick with avian influenza A viruses.
Other things can impact whether you get very sick from bird flu, including older age, delayed medical care, and/or underlying medical conditions.
KEEP READING People at Increased Risk for Bird Flu How it spreads Avian influenza A viruses may spread in a few ways: Direct contact between infected birds and other animals From contact with virus-contaminated environments or animal by-products Avian influenza A virus through the air (droplets or dust) Very rare, limited person to person spread has occurred in other countries.
KEEP READING Bird Flu: Causes and How It Spreads Prevention The best way to prevent bird flu is to avoid sources of exposure whenever possible.
People should avoid direct contact with sick or dead wild birds, poultry, and other animals and observe them only from a distance.
If you must have direct/close contact with sick or dead wild birds, poultry, or other animals, including dairy cows, wear recommended PPE.
Do not touch surfaces or materials (e.g., animal litter or bedding material) contaminated with saliva, mucous, or animal feces from birds or other animals with confirmed or suspected avian influenza A virus infection.
Do not touch or consume raw milk or raw milk products, especially from animals with confirmed or suspected avian influenza A virus infection.
Choosing pasteurized milk and products made with pasteurized milk is the best way to keep you and your family safe.
Pasteurization kills bacteria and viruses, like avian influenza A viruses, in milk.
Cook poultry, eggs, and beef to a safe internal temperature to kill bacteria and viruses.
More information about safe handling and cooking of poultry is available at Chicken and Food Poisoning.
Refer to CDC's safer foods table for a complete list of safe internal temperatures.
KEEP READING Preventing Bird Flu Infections Quick facts Avian influenza A viruses are very different from human seasonal influenza viruses.
They have the potential to cause a pandemic in people if they were to gain the ability to more easily infect and spread efficiently between people because people have little pre-existing immunity to these viruses.
Currently, no avian influenza A viruses, including avian influenza A(H5N1), have gained the ability to spread easily and sustainably among people.
Human infections with avian influenza viruses have ranged in severity from mild to severe.
The possibility of human infections with avian influenza A virus that result in severe illness remains and underscores the importance of ongoing prevention and surveillance efforts.
Most human cases of bird flu in the United States have been mild, so far, and most had known exposure to sick or infected animals.
Clinical specimens (samples) from people with suspected bird flu are first tested at a state public health laboratory.
Specimens that test positive for bird flu at a state public health laboratory are considered "presumptive positive." They are then shipped to CDC for confirmatory testing.
Testing and diagnosis There are tests that can detect avian influenza virus infections.
People with recent exposure to infected (or suspected to be infected) birds, animals, or their byproducts and who have symptoms, can be tested.
Reach out to your health care provider and your local public health department to be tested.
People who do not have symptoms, but who had a higher risk exposure to infected animals or by-products may also be offered testing by their state or local health department as part of ongoing public health investigations.
KEEP READING Testing for Influenza A(H5) Virus Infection Treatment Flu antiviral drugs can treat avian influenza A virus infections.
People who develop bird flu symptoms following exposure to infected animals should receive treatment with flu antivirals (oseltamivir) as soon as possible.
Also, people who had exposure to infected animals who did not wear the recommended personal protective equipment (PPE) or who had a breach in their PPE, may be offered flu antivirals, regardless of whether they have symptoms or not.
Antiviral treatment works best within 48 hours of developing symptoms.
Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for testing results.
KEEP READING Treatment of Bird Flu Vaccines At this time, there is no recommendation for people to be vaccinated against bird flu and there is no commercially available vaccine against avian influenza viruses, including H5 virus.
Seasonal flu vaccines are not designed or intended to protect against avian influenza A viruses.
CDC has developed H5 candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) that are nearly identical to or, in many cases, identical to the hemagglutinin (HA) protein of recently detected clade 2.3.4.4b avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses in humans, birds and other mammals.
A CVV is what is used to make flu vaccines.
These H5 CVVs could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed, and preliminary analysis indicates that they would provide good protection against avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses currently circulating in birds and other animals.
More information on bird flu vaccines is available from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR) at ASPR's Response to H5N1 Bird Flu and by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA)'s Pandemic Vaccines and Adjuvants Program at Medical Countermeasures | Influenza & Emerging Infectious Diseases (IED) Pandemic Vaccines & Adjuvants Program .
KEEP READING Preventing Bird Flu Infections Animal impact H5 bird flu is widespread in wild birds worldwide and is being reported in an increasing number of animals worldwide in addition to outbreaks in poultry and U.S.
dairy herds.
Wild birds that can carry avian influenza viruses include waterbirds, like ducks, geese and swans, and shorebirds, like storks.
While most wild birds can be infected with avian influenza A viruses without being sick, poultry, like chickens and turkeys, can get infected and get very sick and die from certain avian influenza viruses.
Most common songbirds or other birds found in the yard, like cardinals, robins, sparrows, blue jays, crows or pigeons, do not get infected with avian influenza viruses.
Other mammals also can be infected with avian influenza A viruses.
In these animals, signs can range from mild to severe, including death.
Recently H5N1 bird flu has been detected in mammals , including dairy cows.
Information about recent detections of bird flu in animals is available at 2022–2024 Detections of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza .
What CDC is doing CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
CDC's role in any avian influenza cases or outbreak in people includes three areas of focus: Surveillance and Diagnostics Human monitoring and developing guidance for the public, public health, and clinicians Virology and monitoring of genetic changes in the virus KEEP READING What CDC Is Doing to Respond to Bird Flu Outbreaks Research H5N1 Technical Report | Bird Flu | CDC Resources Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) Resources | Bird Flu | CDC H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation | Bird Flu | CDC News & Spotlights | Bird Flu | CDC Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus: Interim Recommendations for Prevention, Monitoring, and Public Health Investigations | Bird Flu | CDC ON THIS PAGE Overview Types Signs and symptoms Exposure risks People at risk How it spreads Prevention Quick facts Testing and diagnosis Treatment Show More RELATED PAGES What CDC Does About Bird Flu Preparedness & Response Avian Influenza Type A Current Situation Signs and Symptoms VIEW ALL Bird Flu What CDC Does About Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Past Examples of Probable Limited, Non-Sustained, Person-to-Person Spread of Avian Influenza A Viruses Public Health FEB.
27, 2023 KEY POINTS Avian influenza A viruses infect the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts of birds but rarely infect people.
Most previous avian influenza A virus infections of people have occurred following close, prolonged, and unprotected (e.g., no gloves or medical mask) contact with infected poultry or environments contaminated by their saliva, mucous, or feces that can contain these viruses.
The risk of human infection depends, in part, on the duration of exposure and the specific exposures encountered.
Background Because human infection with avian influenza A virus poses pandemic potential, every case must be investigated to assess whether human-to-human transmission might have occurred.
Detailed public health investigations can help determine whether person-to-person spread of an avian influenza A virus occurred.
In some clusters of epidemiologically related cases of avian influenza A virus infection, limited, non-sustained, human-to-human transmission is thought to have occurred to persons without poultry exposures.
No instances of human-to-human transmission of avian influenza A viruses have been reported in the United States.
Below are examples of probable limited, non-sustained, human-to-human transmission of different avian influenza A viruses in other countries.
Examples of probable person-to-person spread of avian influenza A viruses: In 1997, the first human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus were identified in Hong Kong.
Serologic studies suggested evidence of probable limited, non-sustained, human-to-human H5N1 virus spread.
(Buxton Bridges C.
"Risk of influenza A(H5N1) infection among health care workers exposed to patients with influenza A(H5N1), Hong Kong ;") (Katz JM et al.
"Antibody response in individuals infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses and detection of anti-H5 antibody among household and social contacts .") In 2003, in the Netherlands, there was evidence of limited, non-sustained spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H7N7) virus from two poultry workers to three family members.
All three family members had conjunctivitis (eye inflammation) and one also had influenza-like illness after exposure to an ill poultry worker at home.
(M Du Ry van Beest Holle, Meijer, et al, 2005.
"Human to Human Transmission of Avian Influenza /H7N7, The Netherlands, 2003 .") In 2004, in Thailand, there was evidence of limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in family members.
Spread of H5N1 virus was associated with prolonged, very close, unprotected contact between an ill child with H5N1 virus infection and her mother and aunt while the child was hospitalized.
(Ungchusak et al, 2005.
"Probable Person-to-Person Transmission of Avian Influenza A(H5N1) .") In 2005, in Indonesia, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in households among family members could not be excluded among two groups of cases who had no known contact with poultry or other animals but who did have prolonged, unprotected contact with a symptomatic person with H5N1 virus infection.
(Kandun et al, 2006.
"Three Indonesian Clusters of H5N1 Virus Infection in 2005 .") In 2006, in Indonesia, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person-to-person (3rd generation) spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus may have occurred among a family cluster of eight probable or confirmed H5N1 cases.
(Avian influenza – situation in Indonesia – update 16 ) In 2007, in China, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus is thought to have occurred between a sick son and his father through prolonged, very close, unprotected exposure during the son's hospitalization for severe H5N1 illness.
(Wang et al, 2008.
"Probable limited person-to-person transmission of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in China .") Also in 2007, in Pakistan, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person-to-person (3rd generation) spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus is thought to have occurred among brothers.
(WHO, Weekly Epidemiological Record, 2008.
Human cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) in North-West Frontier Province, Pakistan, October–November 2007 In 2013, human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus were first reported in China .
Yearly epidemics of human infections with H7N9 viruses during 2013-2017 in China were driven mostly by contact with infected poultry at live poultry markets or in backyard poultry flocks.
A small percentage of reported cases were associated with probable, limited, non-sustained, person-to-person spread, mostly occurring in households between family members.
However, probable, limited, non-sustained spread of H7N9 virus between unrelated persons has been reported in a few cases in hospitals.
(Li, Q et al, 2014.
"Epidemiology of human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in China ") (Xiang, N et al, 2016.
"Assessing Change in Avian Influenza A(H7N9) Virus Infections During the Fourth Epidemic — China, September 2015–August 2016") (Chen et al.
"Nosocomial Co-Transmission of Avian Influenza A(H7N9) and A(H1N1)pdm09 Viruses between 2 Patients with Hematologic Disorders ;") (Fang et al, 2015.
"Nosocomial transmission of avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in China: epidemiological investigation ." (Zhang et al, 2017.
"A Suspected Person-to-person Transmission of Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Case in Ward." ) RELATED PAGES Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI Surveillance and Monitoring Data Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses Global Human Cases with Influenza A(H5N1), 1997-2025 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Reported Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Bulletin JAN.
3, 2025 ABOUT The NCIRD Bulletin highlights recent trends and summarizes important updates from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
In addition, the NCIRD Bulletin shares timely information about CDC's role, information, and action related to certain public health issues and situations.
Read these Bulletins to stay informed about developments related to infectious respiratory illnesses and vaccine-preventable diseases.
What's New COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Among Older Adults Are Up from Last Season CDC data show higher COVID-19 vaccination rates in adults 75 and older.
26, 2024 CDC Releases New In-Season Estimates for COVID-19 and RSV CDC's weekly estimates show how COVID-19 and RSV affect people across the U.S.
19, 2024 Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory virus season is here.
Learn about actions we can all take to make it a healthier one.
20, 2024 SARS-CoV-2 Variant XEC Increases as KP.3.1.1 Slows Many variants came from the JN.1 lineage of SARS-CoV-2.
2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine should work NOV.
1, 2024 CDC Updates Vaccine Recommendations ACIP reviewed vaccine data and voted to update vaccine recommendations for COVID-19 and Pneumococcal...
29, 2024 2024-2025 Respiratory Disease Season Outlook – October Update CDC expects similar or fewer respiratory hospitalizations.
Vaccination can play a key role to preven OCT.
25, 2024 Monitoring Respiratory Illnesses Informs Decision Making Learn more about how CDC tracks respiratory illness trends for flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
21, 2024 Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections Have Been Increasing Bacterial infection increase is especially affecting young children, causing pneumonia.
18, 2024 Immunization Can Prevent Severe Respiratory Illness and Death Immunization is a core prevention strategy to lower risk from respiratory viruses.
11, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization Infants under 6 months face highest risk of COVID-19 hospitalization among pediatric groups.
2, 2024 Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in t SEPT.
27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All What CDC Is Doing to Respond to Bird Flu Outbreaks For Everyone MAR.
24, 2025 KEY POINTS CDC is working closely with USDA to monitor the current H5N1 bird flu situation in wild birds and poultry, dairy cows, and sporadic infections in other mammals, and will provide updates as information is available.
CDC is the lead agency for human health.
Department of Interior and USDA are the lead federal departments for outbreak investigation and control in wild birds and agriculture.
USDA APHIS is the lead agency for such activities in domestic birds and agricultural livestock.
The risk to the general public from H5N1 bird flu is currently low.
Monitoring of Exposed Workers CDC is working with USDA and state partners to monitor for infections in exposed persons in the states where detections in poultry, backyard flocks, or other animals have occurred.
People who have been exposed to infected birds, poultry, or other animals are actively monitored for 10 days after exposure.
Public health departments are working to monitor people who were exposed to birds/poultry or other animals infected with A(H5N1) virus.
People monitored who show symptoms are subsequently tested for novel influenza A and seasonal flu viruses along with other respiratory viruses.
Testing of these people is being done by state or local officials, and CDC is conducting confirmatory testing when needed.
CDC is engaging public health partner organizations to share information and ensure preparedness for any potential human infections.
CDC continues to support surveillance, contact tracing, and other steps to monitor for and reduce spread in jurisdictions where human infections with A(H5N1) virus are identified.
Guidance and Recommendations CDC has developed guidance for various groups: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus in Animals: Interim Recommendations for Prevention, Monitoring, and Public Health Investigations Considerations for Veterinarians: Evaluating and Handling of Cats Potentially Exposed to Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Interim Guidance for Employers to Reduce Exposure to Avian Influenza A Viruses for People Working with Animals Ongoing Laboratory Activities Genetic Sequencing and Virus Characterization CDC will continue its ongoing assessment of the risk posed by these viruses, including conducting additional laboratory work to further characterize current A(H5N1) viruses.
Because flu viruses are constantly changing, CDC continually analyzes viruses to identify genetic changes that suggest these viruses might spread more easily to and between people, and cause serious illness in people, or for changes that suggest reduced susceptibility to antivirals, as well as changes in the virus that might mean a new vaccine virus should be developed.
Diagnostics CDC is also testing human sera (blood) from people previously vaccinated with pre-pandemic A(H5) vaccines to see how it reacts to the virus from the human case in Texas.
Data to date – including genetic analysis and testing of ferret antisera from multiple clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses – suggest vaccination will offer good cross-protection against cattle outbreak viruses (The human case in Texas was a 2.3.4.4b virus).
Vaccines As part of pandemic preparedness activities and as a WHO Collaborating Center, CDC regularly develops candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs)—viruses made for production of vaccine—for novel bird flu viruses with pandemic potential.
Two existing HPAI A(H5N1) candidate vaccine viruses are already available to manufacturers, and which could be used to make vaccine if needed.
CDC is also testing human sera (blood) from people previously vaccinated with pre-pandemic A(H5) vaccines to see how it reacts to the virus from the human case in Texas.
Data to date – including genetic analysis and testing of ferret antisera from multiple clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses – suggest vaccination will offer good cross-protection against cattle outbreak viruses (The human case in Texas was a 2.3.4.4b virus).
Antivirals There are four commercially available FDA-approved prescription antiviral treatment drugs recommended for influenza.
CDC has conducted testing for susceptibility testing to the commercially available and recommended flu antiviral medications, The medications can be used for flu treatment and are recommended for prevention in people with exposures.
Testing confirmed that the A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas is susceptible to baloxavir marboxil, in addition to neuraminidase inhibitors.
With these findings, the virus from the human case in Texas is confirmed to be susceptible to commercially available FDA-approved and recommended flu neuraminidase and polymerase acidic protein (PA) endonuclease inhibitor antiviral medications.
CDC is also looking at antiviral resistance properties of more than 200 publicly posted H5N1 virus sequences from cattle, CDC found one virus from a cow with a marker known to be associated with reduced susceptibility to the neuraminidase inhibitors (a change at NA-T438I).
This change has been seen rarely in the past in H5N1 viruses isolated from wild birds and poultry.
The detection of this marker in one of more than 200 specimens is not surprising or particularly concerning at this time in terms of the clinical usefulness of these drugs, but it does underscore why this kind of constant monitoring is important.
Assessing Potential Disease Severity and Transmission CDC is also working to grow H5N1 virus stock from the one human case in Texas to use for additional laboratory experiments to learn how the virus reproduces in both human and cow respiratory tract epithelial cells and cow mammary epithelial cells and to assess the severity of illness and transmissibility of the virus under different scenarios by infecting ferrets and assessing the outcome.
Ferrets are used as a model for people because they get sick and spread influenza viruses similar to humans.
Monitoring Flu Surveillance Data CDC continues to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cattle or other animals, for any unusual trends in flu-like illness, flu, or conjunctivitis.
CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1).
More information can be found on: How CDC is monitoring influenza data among people to better understand the current avian influenza A (H5N1) situation.
Pilot Testing Program As part of CDC's Farmworker Enhanced Surveillance Program (FWESP), CDC is working with pharmacy networks, eTrueNorth and Walgreens, on a pilot program to provide free testing of symptomatic persons in California and Colorado that have confirmed H5N1 bird flu infections in people, poultry, or livestock.
The program aims to increase testing for seasonal flu and triage for H5 testing if needed, raise awareness about the symptoms and risk factors for infection with H5N1 bird flu among higher-risk populations, and determine whether certain rapid point-of-care (POC) tests identify influenza A-positive specimens when farm or dairy workers are infected with H5N1 bird flu.
Outreach and Education In addition to conducting laboratory studies and active surveillance, CDC also is engaging public health partner organizations, including One Health organizations from public health, agriculture, wildlife, milk regulatory officials to share information and ensure preparedness for any potential human infections.
CDC is conducting broad outreach to the public to raise awareness about the current situation and that the current risk to the general public's health is low, but that there are certain groups of people who are at a greater risk of infection who should take precautions.
CDC continues to develop and maintain multilingual and multidisciplinary epidemiological field teams ready to deploy for on-site studies and use to better understand the current outbreak, particularly the public health and One Health implications of the emergence of this virus in cattle.
CDC will provide updates on this situation as needed on the Avian Influenza Current Situation Summary or Avian News & Spotlights pages.
ON THIS PAGE Monitoring of Exposed Workers Guidance and Recommendations Ongoing Laboratory Activities Monitoring Flu Surveillance Data Outreach and Education RELATED PAGES Current Situation Bird Flu in People Bird Flu in Poultry Bird Flu in Wild Birds Bird Flu in Dairy Cows VIEW ALL Bird Flu About SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone APRIL 28, 2017 ESPAÑOL Preparedness & Response WHAT TO KNOW An influenza pandemic—whether of low, moderate, high or very high severity—will place extraordinary and sustained demands on public health and health care systems and on providers of essential community services.
Since 2005, the United States has worked to increase capacity for global pandemic response.
Background HHS has developed and refined tools over the past decade to help guide different aspects of planning and response, including evaluating the pandemic risk posed by a novel influenza A virus, assessing the risk and potential public health impact posed by the novel influenza A virus; understanding the possible progression of the event; developing a pre-pandemic candidate vaccine virus, or vaccine; and evaluating the severity and transmissibility to enable informed public health interventions.
Surveillance and monitoring, development and delivery of medical countermeasures (e.g., vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and respiratory protection devices) and non-pharmaceutical interventions, health care system response, and communications are integral components of pandemic planning and response.
Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus (CVV) for a HPAI (Bird Flu) Virus Planning and Preparedness Resources Strategic National Stockpile What CDC Does About Novel Flu: Outbreak Investigations RELATED PAGES About What CDC Does About Bird Flu Avian Influenza Type A Current Situation Signs and Symptoms VIEW ALL Bird Flu Avian Influenza Type A SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MAY 2, 2024 ESPAÑOL What CDC Does About Bird Flu PURPOSE CDC works to improve global control and prevention of seasonal and novel influenza, including avian influenza viruses, and works to improve influenza pandemic preparedness and response.
Overview In collaboration with domestic and global partners, CDC's Influenza Division: Builds surveillance and response capacity.
Monitors and assesses influenza viruses and illness.
Improves vaccines and other interventions.
Applies research to provide science-based enhancement of prevention and control policies and programs.
CDC influenza programs protect the United States from seasonal influenza and an influenza pandemic, which occurs when a new flu virus emerges that can infect people and spread globally.
Low Resolution Video Monitoring CDC’s Collaborating Center Influenza Influenza Surveillance in the United States About CDC's Global Influenza Program Risk Assessment & Research Dual Use Research of Concern Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) Preparedness & Response Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus (CVV) for a HPAI (Bird Flu) Virus Strategic National Stockpile What CDC Does About Novel Flu: Outbreak Investigations Additional information US Resources National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Influenza Division Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), Influenza Division U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA) Avian Influenza InformationGeneral information about avian influenza and instructions on how to report dead birds USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Information about avian influenza in the Northern Hemisphere and materials related to protecting the U.S.
from avian influenza importation.
International Resources World Health Organization WHO Avian Influenza website : Information about current outbreaks throughout the world World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) : Information about infections among poultry and other animals throughout the world United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization: Avian InfluenzaFood safety issues related to the current avian influenza outbreaks throughout the world ON THIS PAGE Overview Monitoring Risk Assessment & Research Preparedness & Response Additional information SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September 27, 2024, 10:30 AM EDT For Everyone SEPT.
27, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Flu, COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) cause most hospitalizations from respiratory illness during fall and winter season.
Staying up to date with immunizations helps protect you from severe illness.
September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in the year if you haven’t received your vaccines.
Summary What CDC knows Flu, COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) spread more commonly during fall and winter months.
Staying up to date with your recommended vaccines reduces the risk of severe disease, hospitalization, and death.
What CDC is doing CDC recommends flu and COVID-19 vaccination for everyone ages 6 months and older (and RSV immunization for certain groups).
Earlier this year, CDC updated its respiratory virus guidance to provide practical recommendations to help people lower their risk from flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
Make a plan to get your recommended vaccines Flu, COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) cause most hospitalizations due to respiratory illness during fall and winter.
With fall arriving, it's time to plan to get your recommended vaccines.
Staying up to date with vaccines against flu and COVID-19 (and RSV immunization, if recommended for you) protects you from severe disease, hospitalization, and death.
Here we answer commonly asked questions about flu, COVID-19, and RSV vaccines.
Why get vaccinated this fall and winter season?
Flu, COVID-19, and RSV still have the potential to take a heavy toll across the United States.
During a six-month period last fall and winter, these infections caused over 800,000 hospitalizations.
Vaccination helps reduce the risk of serious illness and death.
While you may still get sick if you are vaccinated, you are less likely to be hospitalized or die from these respiratory illnesses.
Often, people hospitalized due to these illnesses have not been vaccinated .
How do I know if I'm at higher risk of serious illness?
Adults 65 years and older, young children, residents of long-term care facilities, pregnant women, and people with certain long-term health conditions are at increased risk of serious illness from respiratory viruses.
Some racial and ethnic groups, like Black and Hispanic people, may be at increased risk for severe outcomes from respiratory viruses due to health disparities.
This is due to social determinants of health or the environments where these groups may live, learn, work, and play.
Additionally, research suggests some American Indian and Alaska Native infants and young children are at a high risk of severe RSV disease.
Which vaccines for respiratory illnesses are recommended for me?
CDC recommends the updated 2024-2025 COVID-19 vaccine for everyone 6 months and older.
This includes people who have received a COVID-19 vaccine before and people who have had COVID-19.
It is especially important for the following groups to get the 2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine: People ages 65 years and older People with underlying medical conditions, including immunocompromise People living in long-term care facilities Women who are pregnant, breastfeeding, or might become pregnant in the future to protect themselves and their infants An annual flu vaccine, which protects against the three influenza viruses expected to spread this season, is recommended for everyone 6 months and older.
If you are at higher risk of developing serious flu complications, flu vaccination is especially important.
By getting a flu vaccine you reduce your risk of getting sick with flu, being hospitalized or dying from flu.
A flu shot during pregnancy can also protect both a pregnant woman and baby for about 6 months after birth.
And people with a history of heart disease who got the flu shot are less likely to have a serious cardiac outcome than those who haven't gotten a flu shot.
The recommendations for RSV are a bit different since immunization is only recommended for the very young and older adults, which are the populations most likely to develop severe RSV.
CDC recommends protecting babies younger than 8 months against severe RSV in one of two ways: through vaccination of a pregnant woman (with Pfizer's Abrysvo) at weeks 32-36 of pregnancy or by the baby getting the antibody nirsevimab at birth or just before the RSV season.
Nirsevimab is also recommended for some younger children between ages 8 and 19 months who are at increased risk for RSV disease.
CDC recommends a single dose of the RSV vaccine for all adults ages 75 and older and for adults ages 60 to 74 who are at increased risk of severe RSV disease.
If you received an RSV vaccine last year, you do not need another vaccine.
View Larger Which vaccines do you need this fall and winter season?
View this Fall and Winter Virus Season Immunization Guide to ensure you know which vaccines are recommended for you.
Why get an updated COVID-19 vaccine?
Vaccine protection and immunity from SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, decreases over time.
COVID-19 vaccines are updated to give you protection against the currently circulating viruses.
The virus that causes COVID-19 is constantly evolving, with new variants appearing all the time.
The 2024-2025 COVID-19 vaccines are updated to better protect against currently circulating variants.
Are the vaccines available right now?
Flu, COVID-19, and RSV vaccines are available now.
The RSV immunization for infants, called nirsevimab, will become available starting October 1.
Availability of these immunizations will continue to increase in the coming weeks.
When is the best time to get my vaccines?
Respiratory virus season often starts in October and peaks between December and March.
Getting your updated vaccines in the fall can help provide protection through the fall and winter seasons.
Still, respiratory viruses can make people sick any time of the year, so you can get your updated 2024-2025 vaccine at any time if you haven't received it yet.
Where can I get my vaccines?
There are a few ways you can get your recommended vaccines.
Ask your healthcare provider, pharmacist, or visit their website.
Contact public health clinics, Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC), and Rural Health Clinics (RHC ).
How can I get COVID-19 vaccines at no cost to me?
If you have health insurance, you can get the updated COVID-19 vaccine at little or no cost to you.
Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act , people with Medicare drug coverage pay nothing out-of-pocket for adult vaccines recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
Additionally, most adults enrolled in Medicaid will be guaranteed coverage of ACIP-recommended vaccines at no cost to them.
Eligible children 18 years and younger can get free vaccines through Vaccines for Children.
The eligibility requirements for this program are listed here.
For this season, immunization programs in each jurisdiction received additional funds to purchase COVID-19 vaccines for under- and uninsured adults.
Contact your state or local health department to find out more about getting a free vaccine.
Can I get all my recommended vaccines during the same visit?
Flu, COVID-19, and RSV vaccines may be given at the same visit.
This means that if you're only able to make one trip to get your fall and winter vaccines, you can get all those vaccines recommended for you at once.
If you prefer to receive each vaccine at a separate visit, there is no minimum waiting period between vaccines.
You should get vaccinated as quickly as possible to make sure you are up to date and protected from severe illness this season.
You might also be due for other vaccines, like those to prevent pneumococcal disease, shingles, or whooping cough.
While there are some exceptions, most vaccines can be given at the same visit.
Talk with a healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have questions about these vaccines.
What else can I do to protect myself this respiratory virus season?
Staying home when sick, practicing good hygiene, and taking steps for cleaner air are some actions you can do to protect yourself this fall and winter.
Additional strategies include masking, maintaining physical distance, and testing.
Check out the CDC's updated respiratory virus guidance.
ON THIS PAGE Summary Make a plan to get your recommended vaccines Why get vaccinated this fall and winter season?
How do I know if I'm at higher risk of serious illness?
Which vaccines for respiratory illnesses are recommended for me?
Why get an updated COVID-19 vaccine?
Are the vaccines available right now?
When is the best time to get my vaccines?
Where can I get my vaccines?
How can I get COVID-19 vaccines at no cost to me?
Show More RELATED PAGES Bulletin COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness COVID-19 Vaccine Equity Get Your Flu, COVID-19, and RSV Vaccines Antiviral Treatments Can Protect You VIEW ALL NCIRD Get Your Flu, COVID-19, and RSV Vaccines SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All For Everyone OCTOBER 2, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization October 2, 2024, 1:40 PM EDT WHAT TO KNOW Infants younger than 6 months of age and children with one or more underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe COVID-19 disease.
COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy can help protect infants after birth and is recommended for all pregnant women year-round.
Children aged 6 months to 4 years are recommended to receive a multidose initial COVID-19 vaccination series.
This is especially important for children with underlying medical conditions.
­ Summary What CDC Knows Indicators of COVID-19 activity, including COVID-19 test positivity, emergency department visits and rates of COVID-19 hospitalizations, increased this summer.
During the week ending August 10, 2024, 5.8% of emergency department visits among children younger than 5 years of age were due to COVID-19.
While emergency department visits and hospitalizations have started to decline in recent weeks, they are still elevated across the United States.
What CDC is doing CDC uses surveillance systems year-round to monitor multiple respiratory viruses.
CDC continues to monitor COVID-19 activity through various sources including lab test positivity, emergency department visits and hospitalizations.
This surveillance helps to identify trends and patterns of disease spread.
CDC promotes vaccination by educating health care providers and the public and supporting vaccine purchase through the Vaccines for Children program.
A higher proportion of young children are visiting emergency departments for COVID-19 As SARS-CoV-2 circulation increased this summer, emergency department visits due to COVID-19 increased in all ages, including among infants and young children.
During the week ending August 10, 2024, 5.8% of emergency department visits among children younger than 5 years of age were due to COVID-19.
This represents a higher proportion of visits due to COVID-19 than any other age group.
While most children experience asymptomatic, mild, or moderate COVID-19 illness, some children can experience severe illness.
Severe illness can result in admission to the hospital, and in some cases, the use of mechanical ventilation, a type of breathing machine.
Infants younger than 6 months of age and children with one or more underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe COVID-19 disease.
COVID-19 Associated Emergency Department Visits by Age Data from National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) as of September 25, 2024, show that children less than 5 years of age have the highest proportion of emergency department visits attributed to COVID-19.
Among children, infants less than 6 months of age are at highest risk of COVID-19-associated hospitalization As observed during previous periods of increased SARS-CoV-2 circulation, COVID-19 hospitalization rates for children younger than 5 years of age increased from June to August, with the highest pediatric rates in infants less than 6 months.
These COVID-19 hospitalization rates follow trends over the last three years, which have consistently demonstrated higher hospitalization rates among infants younger than 6 months of age than in any other pediatric age group and comparable to rates in adults ages 65 years and older.
For the week ending August 10, 2024, some of the highest rates of COVID-19 associated hospitalization rates continue to be in older adults aged 75 years and older (32.8 per 100,000).
Among children, infants younger than six months of age had the highest rate (12.6 per 100,000) of hospitalizations associated with COVID-19.
Weekly Rates of COVID-19 Associated Hospitalizations by Age Group, 2023-24 These are the weekly COVID-19 hospitalization rates from October 2023 to September 2024.
They were last updated September 26, 2024, from COVID-NET.
COVID-NET hospitalization data are preliminary and subject to change as data become available.
Show More Although infants younger than 6 months of age are the pediatric age group with the highest rates of hospitalization, they are not eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.
Research suggests that COVID-19 vaccination during pregnancy can protect infants after birth and is recommended for all pregnant women year-round.
As of September 7, 2024, children 6 months to 11 months of age have the second-highest pediatric hospitalization rates (2.7 per 100,000).
When compared to older children, this hospitalization rate underscores the importance of starting a multidose initial COVID-19 vaccination series once a child is eligible at 6 months of age.
COVID-19 hospitalizations and severe outcomes from COVID-19 are also more common in children older than 4 years of age with underlying medical conditions.
Routine COVID-19 vaccination in school-aged children with underlying medical conditions can help protect them from severe outcomes.
Spotlight MMWR on COVID-19–Associated Hospitalizations and Maternal Vaccination Among Infants less than 6 Months Old COVID-19 vaccination rates among pregnant and young children are low Vaccinating pregnant women and children 6 months or older can protect newborns and young children against the more severe outcomes of COVID-19.
As of May 11, 2024, only 13.3% of pregnant women ages 18-49 years had received an updated 2023-24 COVID-19 vaccine, and just under 6% of children ages 6 months to 4 years were up to date with their COVID-19 vaccine.
This means that many young children are left unprotected from the most severe impacts of COVID-19.
CDC recommends everyone ages 6 months and older receive an updated 2024-2025 COVID-19 vaccine to protect against the potentially serious outcomes of COVID-19.
Vaccination is particularly important for children with underlying medical conditions that put them at higher risk for severe COVID-19, such as prematurity, chronic lung disease, heart disease, and neurological disorders.
ON THIS PAGE Summary A higher proportion of young children are visiting emergency departments for COVID-19 Among children, infants less than 6 months of age are at highest risk of COVID-19-associated hospitalization COVID-19 vaccination rates among pregnant and young children are low RELATED PAGES Bulletin There Is Still Time to Get Vaccinated Pediatric Pneumonia Update Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory Disease Season VIEW ALL NCIRD Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone JUNE 3, 2024 ESPAÑOL News & Spotlights Influenza A Viruses May Infect GI Tract and Cause Digestive Symptoms SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Influenza A Viruses May Infect GI Tract and Cause Digestive Symptoms For Everyone SEPT.
8, 2025 AT A GLANCE A new CDC report highlights the potential for influenza A viruses to cause gastrointestinal (digestive) symptoms in humans and infect mammals through other (non-respiratory) routes.
Background September 8, 2025 – A new CDC report summarizes data on how influenza A viruses might affect the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of mammals, including people, in the context of the A(H5N1) bird flu outbreak in the United States.
A key question has been the potential health threat to people from eating or drinking food or beverages contaminated with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, such as contaminated raw (unpasteurized) milk.
While no human infections with A(H5N1) virus have been attributed to consumption of raw cow's milk or products made from raw cow milk, the research summarized in this report shows that some seasonal and novel influenza A viruses may have potential to cause infection of the GI tract.
Additionally, while the risk appears to be low to date, avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses may cause infection in mammals and have potential to cause infection in humans if the digestive tract were exposed to A(H5N1) viruses or virus-contaminated products.
This study also notes the need to better understand how influenza A viruses may cause infection through other (non-respiratory) routes, including their potential impact on the GI tract.
Summary of report findings Seasonal influenza A viruses are contagious respiratory pathogens in people and typically cause infection via the respiratory tract.
In this report, CDC researchers analyzed data from scientific reports that studied (1) how often people infected with seasonal and novel influenza A viruses reported GI symptoms and (2) laboratory studies in which live mammals became infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus after eating or drinking contaminated products, including meat or milk.
The collective results indicate influenza A viruses may cause infection in mammals through non-respiratory routes.
Overall, the studies summarized here support that the risk of human infection following consumption of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected materials is low, but theoretically possible.
Below are key findings from this review of studies: Researchers presented combined data from previous studies that reported the presence of influenza A viruses in the GI tissue of ferrets after they were infected through the respiratory/nasal tract, showing that seasonal and novel influenza A viruses may spread to the GI tract of mammals after infection through a respiratory route.
Researchers summarized data from reports that showed dogs and cats that ingested A(H5N1) virus-containing material (typically eating virus-contaminated meat or drinking virus-contaminated milk) could develop a potentially severe and fatal infection.
Numerous animal studies also have shown that eating A(H5N1) virus-contaminated meat or drinking A(H5N1) virus-contaminated milk can lead to infection and death in some mammals.
However, there are limitations in translating these findings to people.
CDC researchers reviewed studies of human cases of seasonal or novel influenza A virus infection in which patients had GI symptoms to better understand the impact on the human GI system.
Clinical reports of GI symptoms and detections of viral genetic material in feces show the potential for both seasonal and novel influenza A viruses to cause GI symptoms in people.
Additional studies found different influenza A virus subtypes are able to multiply within human GI tissues in laboratory settings, suggesting influenza A virus infection in the human GI tract may be possible.
However, it is also important to note that laboratory settings do not have the same acidic conditions as the human GI tract, which may inactivate these viruses.
Conclusion and risk assessment This review of available studies suggests exposure of the digestive system to HPAI A(H5N1) viruses represents a potential non-respiratory route for infection in people and other mammals.
There are also unpublished anecdotal reports of raw duck blood consumption as a potential source of A(H5N1) virus infection in a small number of human cases in the past.
While the risk of human infection of the GI tract from consuming HPAI A(H5N1) virus-contaminated products is likely low, further investigation is needed to understand how different seasonal and novel influenza A viruses may use the GI tract to possibly infect humans and mammals.
Based on the limited research and information available, we do not know at this time if avian influenza A viruses can be transmitted to people through consumption of raw milk and products (such as cheese) made from raw milk from infected cows.
A(H5N1) virus has been found in commercially sold raw milk .
Therefore, drinking raw milk or eating products made with raw milk, should be avoided.
As a reminder, eating uncooked or undercooked poultry or beef, drinking raw (unpasteurized) milk, or consuming other uncooked products made from these animals, can make you sick.
Additionally, products made from raw milk, including soft cheese, ice cream, and yogurt, can be contaminated with germs that can cause serious illness, hospitalization, or death.
Cooking poultry, eggs, and beef to the appropriate internal temperature kills bacteria and viruses, including avian influenza A viruses.
Choosing pasteurized milk and products made with pasteurized milk is an important way to keep you and your family safe.
Pasteurization kills bacteria and viruses, like avian influenza A viruses, in milk.
Make the best decision for your health and the health of your family by always choosing pasteurized milk and products made with it.
For more information on preventing H5N1 bird flu, including additional guidance on the safe consumption of milk and other dairy products, keep reading: Preventing Bird Flu Infections | Bird Flu | CDC ON THIS PAGE Background Summary of report findings Conclusion and risk assessment RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Global Summary of Recent Human Cases of H5N1 Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update March 19, 2025 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update February 26, 2025 CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response H5 Bird Flu Response: Focus Areas for Ongoing Public Health Risk Assessment VIEW ALL Bird Flu Global Summary of Recent Human Cases of H5N1 Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All NCIRD Divisions and Offices For Everyone SEPT.
26, 2025 AT A GLANCE Learn more about NCIRD's organizational structure.
Find additional information about each office and division within NCIRD.
Office of the Director (OD) OD oversees, coordinates, and evaluates activities across NCIRD, and collaborates with its divisions to advance strategic priorities, which include: Data modernization Advancing health equity Operations across science, program, policy, and communication Financial and human capital management Leadership and organization NCIRD Organizational Chart A visual representation of NCIRD divisions and teams.
Download Division of Bacterial Diseases (DBD) DBD's mission is to prevent and control illness and death from vaccine-preventable and other respiratory bacterial diseases in the U.S.
and worldwide.
KEEP READING About the Division of Bacterial Diseases Division of Viral Diseases (DVD) DVD's mission is to prevent disease, disability, and death from viral diseases through immunization and other prevention measures.
Additionally, DVD collaborates with domestic and international partners in response to outbreaks, surveillance, and other public health activities.
KEEP READING About the Division of Viral Diseases Immunization Services Division (ISD) The mission of ISD is to protect people across their lifespan from vaccine-preventable diseases by equitably increasing access, confidence, and demand for vaccines.
The division also engages in provider and public education, evaluation, and research.
Activities include the administration of: Vaccines for Children Program and Section 317 immunization grants Technical support and funding for immunization information systems Training and education Research to improve vaccine delivery and uptake Program effectiveness evaluation KEEP READING About the Immunization Services Division Influenza Division (ID) ID's mission is to advance the global control and prevention of seasonal and novel influenza (flu).
The division aims to improve influenza pandemic preparedness and response through surveillance, vaccination, and other intervention strategies.
ID provides scientific and programmatic leadership for the detection, prevention, and control of influenza domestically and internationally.
KEEP READING About the Influenza Division Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division (CORVD) CORVD's mission is to improve public health by preventing illness, disability, and death from respiratory viruses.
The Division works to achieve this goal through excellence in public health science and practice in the United States and worldwide.
Activities include: Tracking and studying viruses via laboratory and epidemiologic studies Communicating effective vaccine and prevention strategies Domestic and global respiratory virus surveillance KEEP READING About Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division ON THIS PAGE Office of the Director (OD) Division of Bacterial Diseases (DBD) Division of Viral Diseases (DVD) Immunization Services Division (ISD) Influenza Division (ID) Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division (CORVD) SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Bulletin For Everyone JAN.
3, 2025 ABOUT The NCIRD Bulletin highlights recent trends and summarizes important updates from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
In addition, the NCIRD Bulletin shares timely information about CDC's role, information, and action related to certain public health issues and situations.
Read these Bulletins to stay informed about developments related to infectious respiratory illnesses and vaccine-preventable diseases.
What's New COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Among Older Adults Are Up from Last Season CDC data show higher COVID-19 vaccination rates in adults 75 and older.
26, 2024 CDC Releases New In-Season Estimates for COVID-19 and RSV CDC's weekly estimates show how COVID-19 and RSV affect people across the U.S.
19, 2024 Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory virus season is here.
Learn about actions we can all take to make it a healthier one.
20, 2024 SARS-CoV-2 Variant XEC Increases as KP.3.1.1 Slows Many variants came from the JN.1 lineage of SARS-CoV-2.
2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine should work NOV.
1, 2024 CDC Updates Vaccine Recommendations ACIP reviewed vaccine data and voted to update vaccine recommendations for COVID-19 and Pneumococcal...
29, 2024 2024-2025 Respiratory Disease Season Outlook – October Update CDC expects similar or fewer respiratory hospitalizations.
Vaccination can play a key role to preven OCT.
25, 2024 Monitoring Respiratory Illnesses Informs Decision Making Learn more about how CDC tracks respiratory illness trends for flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
21, 2024 Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections Have Been Increasing Bacterial infection increase is especially affecting young children, causing pneumonia.
18, 2024 Immunization Can Prevent Severe Respiratory Illness and Death Immunization is a core prevention strategy to lower risk from respiratory viruses.
11, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization Infants under 6 months face highest risk of COVID-19 hospitalization among pediatric groups.
2, 2024 Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in t SEPT.
27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Bulletin For Everyone JAN.
3, 2025 ABOUT The NCIRD Bulletin highlights recent trends and summarizes important updates from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
In addition, the NCIRD Bulletin shares timely information about CDC's role, information, and action related to certain public health issues and situations.
Read these Bulletins to stay informed about developments related to infectious respiratory illnesses and vaccine-preventable diseases.
What's New COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Among Older Adults Are Up from Last Season CDC data show higher COVID-19 vaccination rates in adults 75 and older.
26, 2024 CDC Releases New In-Season Estimates for COVID-19 and RSV CDC's weekly estimates show how COVID-19 and RSV affect people across the U.S.
19, 2024 Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory virus season is here.
Learn about actions we can all take to make it a healthier one.
20, 2024 SARS-CoV-2 Variant XEC Increases as KP.3.1.1 Slows Many variants came from the JN.1 lineage of SARS-CoV-2.
2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine should work NOV.
1, 2024 CDC Updates Vaccine Recommendations ACIP reviewed vaccine data and voted to update vaccine recommendations for COVID-19 and Pneumococcal...
29, 2024 2024-2025 Respiratory Disease Season Outlook – October Update CDC expects similar or fewer respiratory hospitalizations.
Vaccination can play a key role to preven OCT.
25, 2024 Monitoring Respiratory Illnesses Informs Decision Making Learn more about how CDC tracks respiratory illness trends for flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
21, 2024 Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections Have Been Increasing Bacterial infection increase is especially affecting young children, causing pneumonia.
18, 2024 Immunization Can Prevent Severe Respiratory Illness and Death Immunization is a core prevention strategy to lower risk from respiratory viruses.
11, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization Infants under 6 months face highest risk of COVID-19 hospitalization among pediatric groups.
2, 2024 Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in t SEPT.
27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update February 26, 2025 For Everyone FEB.
26, 2025 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on recent developments in the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry, and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this spotlight, CDC provides an update on recent human infections associated with the ongoing U.S.
H5N1 bird flu outbreak in animals.
These updates include information on the specific animal exposures and the genetic sequence analysis of the viruses detected from three recently confirmed cases in Nevada, Ohio, and Wyoming.
Situation Update February 26, 2025 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry, and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Public risk remains low Since April 2024, working with state public health departments, CDC has confirmed H5 bird flu in 70 people in the United States.
To date, person-to-person spread of H5 bird flu has not been identified.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low but this risk assessment could change as influenza viruses constantly change.
CDC is taking actions to be ready in case the current risk for the public changes.
People with dairy cow or poultry exposures remain at greater risk of infection People with job- or recreation-related exposures to infected animals are at increased risk of infection.
Most (67 of 70) confirmed human infections in the United States have had exposure to infected or presumed to be infected dairy cows or poultry (the source of exposure could not be determined for three cases).
Epidemiology Updates As of February 24, CDC has confirmed three human cases of H5 bird flu in people who became ill in 2025: a dairy worker with exposure to infected dairy cows (Nevada ), a poultry worker with exposure to infected commercial poultry (Ohio ), and the owner of an infected backyard poultry flock (Wyoming ).
These are all considered higher-risk exposures.
While the dairy worker was not hospitalized, both people with poultry exposures experienced severe illness and were hospitalized.
Both hospitalized cases were confirmed positive from lower respiratory specimens, including a bronchoalveolar lavage and sputum.
To date, there has been no evidence of onward spread from any of these people to anyone else.
The dairy worker in Nevada had conjunctivitis (eye redness and irritation) and has recovered.
Most infections associated with U.S.
dairy cows to date have involved mild respiratory symptoms or conjunctivitis.
This person was exposed to infected dairy cows and tested positive for avian influenza A(H5N1) virus.
The poultry worker in Ohio had respiratory symptoms and is home and recovering.
This person participated in culling activities on a farm with infected poultry.
The initial upper respiratory specimens could not be confirmed as positive for avian influenza A(H5) virus at CDC, so CDC initially reported this as a probable case; a subsequent specimen from the person was confirmed positive for avian influenza A(H5) virus at CDC.
The backyard flock owner in Wyoming had respiratory symptoms and is reported to have underlying health conditions that can make people more vulnerable to severe influenza illness.
This person has been discharged from the hospital and is recovering.
This person had direct contact with poultry infected with avian influenza A(H5) virus that died on their property.
Initial upper respiratory specimens were negative for influenza viruses; a lower respiratory specimen collected several days later in the hospital was positive for avian influenza A(H5N1) virus.
Laboratory Updates CDC has successfully sequenced the viruses from the Nevada and Wyoming cases.
Genetic data have been posted in GISAID (Wyoming: EPI_ISL_19749443, Nevada: EPI_ISL_19726293) and GenBank .
Sequencing data are not yet available for the Ohio case.
CDC's analysis of the genetic sequence of the virus isolated from the patient in Nevada identified the virus as an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from clade 2.3.4.4.b (genotype D1.1).
The nucleotide sequence was nearly identical to that of the viruses that USDA reported from dairy cows in Nevada that the person worked with.
The virus had a genetic mutation in its polymerase basic 2 (PB2) protein that has previously been associated with more efficient virus replication in mammalian cells (i.e., change of PB2 D701N).
This change was previously identified in a human case in Chile in 2023.
No other changes associated with mammalian adaption were identified in the sequence data.
CDC also did not identify any changes that might impact effectiveness of influenza antiviral medications or existing clade 2.3.4.4b H5 candidate vaccine viruses.
CDC's analysis of the genetic sequence of the virus from the patient in Wyoming identified an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from clade 2.3.4.4.b (genotype D1.1).
The virus had a genetic mutation in its PB2 protein that has previously been associated with more efficient virus replication in people and other mammals (i.e., change of PB2 E627K).
This change was previously identified in a human case in Texas during 2024.
No other changes associated with mammalian adaption were identified in the sequence data.
CDC also did not identify any changes in the sequence data that might impact effectiveness of influenza antiviral medications or existing H5 candidate vaccine viruses.
Virus was isolated from the case and will undergo further testing and analysis.
CDC Recommendations Risk for serious illness highlights importance of prevention Historically, avian influenza A viruses have caused illnesses ranging from mild to deadly.
Most human infections with avian influenza A viruses in the United States since 2024 have been mild.
However, serious illnesses have occurred, and one person has died.
Because these viruses can cause serious illness and death, it is important for people with exposure to infected or potentially infected animals to take care to follow recommended steps to help protect their health.
The best way to prevent H5N1 bird flu is to avoid sources of exposure whenever possible.
For people who must have direct or close contact with infected or potentially infected animals, help limit exposure to avian influenza A(H5) viruses using CDC recommendations for Everyone Workers and Employers Backyard flock owners ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update Epidemiology Updates Laboratory Updates CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Global Summary of Recent Human Cases of H5N1 Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update March 19, 2025 CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response H5 Bird Flu Response: Focus Areas for Ongoing Public Health Risk Assessment VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All For Everyone OCTOBER 7, 2024 About Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division KEY POINTS The Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division (CORVD) works to improve the health of people in the United States and globally.
The division seeks to prevent illness, disability, and death from respiratory viruses while promoting public health science and practice.
Our mission The mission of CORVD is to improve public health and prevent disease from respiratory viruses.
Priorities CORVD is focused on improving public health and preventing disease from respiratory viruses by: Developing and communicating timely knowledge of impact of respiratory viruses.
Identifying and characterizing respiratory viruses.
Improving and promoting effective prevention and control strategies.
Strengthening preparedness for outbreaks, epidemics, and pandemics.
Operating in alignment with the priorities of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the U.S.
Government (USG), including the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), other centers within the CDC, and other divisions within the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD); our organizational values; and effective strategy, management, policy, and communication practices.
Our work CORVD is organized into four branches: Laboratory Branch ­– The Laboratory Branch develops and implements laboratory methods for the detection and characterization of novel, emerging, and known respiratory viruses.
Epidemiology Branch – The Epidemiology Branch conducts epidemiologic studies on respiratory virus infection, transmission, short- and long-term outcomes, and effectiveness of treatment and prevention to inform clinical and public health actions.
Surveillance & Prevention Branch – The Surveillance & Prevention Branch monitors trends in medically attended illness, disease burden, and vaccine effectiveness for coronavirus and other respiratory viruses to inform vaccine policy and other prevention strategies.
Global Branch – The Global Branch implements and monitors respiratory virus surveillance systems and surveys around the world through training, ongoing technical support, laboratory strengthening, and continual monitoring of program performance.
CORVD topics include: Respiratory adenoviruses Coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV-2, Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronavirus, and seasonal human coronaviruses Human metapneumovirus (HPMV) Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) Parvoviruses Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) Rhinoviruses and respiratory enteroviruses Resources CORVD Organizational Chart A visual representation of CORVD branches as well as who fills leadership positions.
19, 2024 Download ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Our work Resources RELATED PAGES NCIRD Divisions and Offices About DBD About DVD About ISD About ID VIEW ALL NCIRD About ID SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All About the Influenza Division For Everyone DEC.
5, 2024 KEY POINTS The Influenza Division provides scientific and programmatic leadership for the detection, prevention, and control of influenza in the United States and around the world.
The Influenza Division seeks to protect people from seasonal influenza, as well as pandemic influenza, which can occur when a new influenza virus emerges that can infect people and spread globally.
Our mission The mission of the Influenza Division (ID) is to advance global control and prevention of seasonal and new influenza and improve influenza pandemic preparedness and response.
Priorities ID is focused on improving public health and preventing disease from seasonal and pandemic influenza by: Improving vaccine impact ­– ID works to expand CDC influenza laboratory capacity to develop and evaluate additional candidate vaccine viruses for existing influenza vaccine platforms and vaccine technologies under development.ID also prioritizes improved communication to strengthen public vaccine messaging and works to enhance the scientific study of how well influenza vaccines are working to prevent illness.
Improving influenza detection and control ­– ID works to strengthen influenza data collection, integration, and analysis by: Exploring alternative sources of data, increasing influenza laboratory capacities in other countries, and expanding the global network of regional field sites to improve outbreak detection.
Enhancing influenza genomic sequencing efforts at CDC and in state public health labs, which provides needed data to formulate annual influenza vaccines and early warning on changes to viruses that have pandemic potential.
Updating influenza diagnostic tools by exploring and developing new technologies such as a multi-plex PCR diagnostic assay that allows subtyping influenza at public health laboratories in the United States and around the world.
Improving influenza control through increased use of antiviral medication and the communication of new scientific findings of improved outcomes for vaccinated persons with underlying conditions Improving epidemic and pandemic preparedness ­– ID works to strengthen influenza epidemic and pandemic preparedness by improving influenza vaccine introduction, implementing new ways to visualize and forecast outbreaks, and supporting inter-agency pandemic planning and infrastructure development.
Our work ID uses its scientific expertise and resources to address the continuing threat posed by seasonal and pandemic influenza.
Key activities that protect people against both seasonal and pandemic influenza include: Monitoring influenza viruses ­– ID works with domestic and global public health partners to monitor both human and animal influenza viruses to know what viruses are spreading, where outbreaks are located, and find out what kinds of illnesses they are causing.
Supporting vaccine effectiveness – Influenza scientists provide expert consultation on recommendations for which influenza viruses to include in seasonal vaccine production for each year's influenza vaccine.
CDC develops candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) that help decrease the time needed to develop new pandemic vaccines.
Supports external partner studies of influenza vaccines effectiveness in real world conditions.
Studying influenza viruses in the laboratory – ID studies both human and animal influenza viruses in the laboratory to better understand the characteristics of these viruses, including conducting genetic sequencing on between 4,000 and 7,000 viruses each year.
Funding and technical assistance – ID provides direct support to state, local, and territorial public health departments for influenza monitoring and laboratory work.
Improving testing and diagnostic tools – ID develops and distributes tests and supplies materials to public health laboratories so they can detect and characterize influenza viruses.
Leading influenza planning and pandemic preparedness – ID supports state and local governments in preparing for the next influenza pandemic.
In the United States, CDC supports the development and use of community-based flu influenza preparedness measures and emergency response activities to help minimize the impact of a flu pandemic.
Improving tools to prevent and control influenza – ID evaluates the effectiveness of influenza vaccines and antiviral medications and continuously updates its clinical recommendations and guidance for health care providers and public health professionals.
CDC's work to improve vaccine effectiveness is a key part of the U.S.
Government's National Influenza Vaccine Modernization Strategy .
Providing timely and accurate information – ID informs health care providers and the public about influenza prevention and control measures.
CDC works with businesses, schools, communities, and others to plan for and address influenza threats.
ID topics include: Seasonal Influenza Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) FluView Flu Vaccine Finder FluVaxView Flu Resource Center Respiratory Illnesses National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD) Resources ID Organizational Chart A visual representation of ID branches and teams, as well as who fills leadership positions.
11, 2024 Download ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Our work Resources RELATED PAGES NCIRD Divisions and Offices About DBD About DVD About ISD About CORVD VIEW ALL NCIRD National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD) SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Bulletin For Everyone JAN.
3, 2025 ABOUT The NCIRD Bulletin highlights recent trends and summarizes important updates from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
In addition, the NCIRD Bulletin shares timely information about CDC's role, information, and action related to certain public health issues and situations.
Read these Bulletins to stay informed about developments related to infectious respiratory illnesses and vaccine-preventable diseases.
What's New COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Among Older Adults Are Up from Last Season CDC data show higher COVID-19 vaccination rates in adults 75 and older.
26, 2024 CDC Releases New In-Season Estimates for COVID-19 and RSV CDC's weekly estimates show how COVID-19 and RSV affect people across the U.S.
19, 2024 Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory virus season is here.
Learn about actions we can all take to make it a healthier one.
20, 2024 SARS-CoV-2 Variant XEC Increases as KP.3.1.1 Slows Many variants came from the JN.1 lineage of SARS-CoV-2.
2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine should work NOV.
1, 2024 CDC Updates Vaccine Recommendations ACIP reviewed vaccine data and voted to update vaccine recommendations for COVID-19 and Pneumococcal...
29, 2024 2024-2025 Respiratory Disease Season Outlook – October Update CDC expects similar or fewer respiratory hospitalizations.
Vaccination can play a key role to preven OCT.
25, 2024 Monitoring Respiratory Illnesses Informs Decision Making Learn more about how CDC tracks respiratory illness trends for flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
21, 2024 Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections Have Been Increasing Bacterial infection increase is especially affecting young children, causing pneumonia.
18, 2024 Immunization Can Prevent Severe Respiratory Illness and Death Immunization is a core prevention strategy to lower risk from respiratory viruses.
11, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization Infants under 6 months face highest risk of COVID-19 hospitalization among pediatric groups.
2, 2024 Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in t SEPT.
27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All For Everyone SEPTEMBER 10, 2024 About the Immunization Services Division KEY POINTS The Immunization Services Division (ISD) is one of five (5) divisions in the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
ISD is made up of public health experts specializing in informatics, applied science, program implementation, health equity, and other key disciplines.
Their work supports the mission of NCIRD and advances agency goals for disease prevention and eradication, data modernization, and public health infrastructure.
Our mission Protect people and communities from vaccine-preventable diseases by equitably increasing access, confidence, and demand for vaccines.
Priorities 1.
Increase vaccine equity and confidence in the Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program through the Let’s RISE collaborative initiative to reduce the decline in 24 month 7 series and kindergarten vaccine coverage rates.
Improve readiness for vaccine-preventable diseases outbreak response for CDC staff and jurisdictional immunization programs.
Use multiple data sources to develop an approach for estimating vaccine coverage at local, state, and national levels, including race and ethnicity, age group, and vaccine type.
Advance vaccine access in children and adults through: Increasing the number of access points for vaccines through “non-traditional” providers (e.g., pharmacies, long-term care facilities, community-located vaccination, school-located vaccination).
Increasing the number of VFC participating providers in areas where they are most needed.
Goals The ISD Strategic Plan informs how the division allocates its time, energy, and resources.
The plan identifies ISD's goals and strategies for the next five years (2023–2028).
Increase vaccine access Use data to identify areas and populations of concern.
Improve vaccine access for low-coverage areas across urban, suburban, and rural communities.
Increase investments to promote cost-free access to adult vaccination.
Improve on successes of the Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program.
Promote vaccine confidence and demand Work with partners to build vaccine confidence and demand in populations with low coverage.
Provide technical assistance and support to partners on building vaccine confidence.
Analyze data and conduct research to understand the characteristics and drivers of vaccine confidence.
Explore and implement creative strategies to mitigate mis/disinformation.
Enhance data, research, and evaluation Deepen the breadth and accuracy of immunization data on vaccine coverage, access, and demand.
Expand and modernize immunization data systems, surveys, and infrastructure.
Collaborate across the CDC and with partners to improve the quality and interoperability of immunization data and data systems.
Conduct research, evaluate intervention efficacy, and disseminate findings to improve vaccine access, confidence, demand, and coverage.
Strengthen program support for partners Strengthen technical assistance and resources to build partner capacity, including on data, vaccine confidence and demand, reducing disparities, and improving access for all.
Promote increased collaboration and information sharing across partners.
Identify, sustain, and scale evidence-based interventions across partners.
Work with a wide range of partners to develop innovative programs to improve vaccine coverage.
Improve vaccination equity Lead, coordinate, and amplify governmental and partner efforts to reduce vaccination disparities.
Expand research to uncover drivers of vaccine coverage by population and geography.
Prioritize equity in the planning, allocation, and implementation of ISD resources.
Use data to identify and implement opportunities to increase uptake in populations experiencing vaccination disparities.
Enhance vaccination response readiness Use data to identify at-risk communities and predict emerging threats.
Collaborate to develop, maintain, and improve emergency response data and interoperability of information systems.
Coordinate, build capacity, and enhance readiness capabilities at the federal, state, and local levels.
Build strength and resilience across the immunization workforce.
The strategic plan is a living document.
ISD leadership, including branch chiefs, will conduct annual reviews of the plan to align its goals and strategies with changing priorities, funding availability, and broader trends across the immunization landscape.
ISD may also seek input from internal and external partners to inform the review, updates, and associated implementation.
ON THIS PAGE Our mission Priorities Goals RELATED PAGES NCIRD Divisions and Offices About DBD About DVD About CORVD About ID VIEW ALL NCIRD About CORVD SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Human Infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in Chile For Everyone MAR.
29, 2023 WHAT TO KNOW This addendum to Technical Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses, originally published on March 17, 2023, provides a summary of the case and the genomic analysis of the virus from the first H5N1 infection reported in a human in Chile.
The overall risk to human health associated with the ongoing A(H5N1) outbreaks in wild birds and poultry has not changed and remains low at this time.
CDC Update On March 29, 2023, Chile reported its first human infection with HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
This is the second human case of A(H5N1) ever reported in South America, which includes a January 2023 case reported by Ecuador 1.
The Chilean patient was a 53-year-old man with symptom onset on March 13.
He was hospitalized with severe illness and remains in respiratory isolation under multidisciplinary management, with mechanical ventilation due to pneumonia.
After hospital admission on March 22, the patient received antiviral treatment with oseltamivir and antibiotic treatment.
HPAI A(H5) was detected in wild birds and sea lions in the Antofagasta region of coastal northern Chile where the patient lived 2.
Potential contact of the patient with wild birds, marine mammals and/or environmental exposures remains under investigation.
Close contacts of the patient have been asymptomatic and have tested negative for influenza viruses, indicating that no known human-to-human transmission occurred 2.
Viral RNA obtained from a bronchoalveolar lavage specimen from the patient has been sequenced and genetically analyzed by the National Influenza Centre in Chile (Instituto de Salud Pública) and by the Influenza Division/CDC.
The virus was identified as having a clade 2.3.4.4b HA and was determined to be the same genotype that has been detected in the majority of wild birds in South America, indicating no evidence for genetic reassortment compared to A(H5N1) viruses predominating in birds in South America.
The virus was 99% identical to many viruses identified in A(H5N1) virus-infected wild birds in Chile.
Overall, the genomic analysis of the virus in this specimen does not change CDC's risk assessment related to the avian A(H5) clade 2.3.4.4b viruses.
The overall risk to human health associated with the ongoing A(H5) outbreaks in wild birds and poultry remains low.
The hemagglutinin (HA) gene codes for one of the two surface glycoproteins and is central to species specificity because it is responsible for virus attachment and fusion with host cells.
Analysis of this HA gene shows that it is closely related to avian A(H5) viruses in HA clade 2.3.4.4b and lacked amino acid changes that improve recognition of mammalian receptors or fusion of the viral membrane with the host endosomal membranes.
The HA is also the primary target of neutralizing antibodies elicited by infection or vaccination, and the HA of virus from this specimen is very closely related (99% identity) to the A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like pre-pandemic candidate vaccine viruses (e.g., IDCDC-RG71A 3) that is available to vaccine manufacturers.
There are only three amino acid changes (i.e., L104M, L115Q, V210A) between the HA of the virus from the Chilean case and A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like candidate vaccine, and they are not in major antigenic epitopes strongly suggesting that antibodies elicited by the A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like vaccine would be expected to have good cross-reactivity – and therefore protection – against this virus.
The neuraminidase (NA) gene encodes the other surface protein of the virus.
The major role of the NA is to release new progeny virions from an infected cell by enzymatically cleaving sialic acid receptors, which aids virus spread to uninfected cells within an infected host.
The enzymatic activity of NA is inhibited by one class of antiviral drugs that are FDA-approved for treatment of influenza (i.e., NA inhibitors).
Analysis of the N1 NA gene from the Chile specimen showed that it did not have any known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to this class of antivirals (i.e., oseltamivir).
Furthermore, the NA has a full-length stalk which is consistent with viruses that naturally circulate in wild birds.
In previous A(H5N1) outbreaks and zoonosis the NA stalk region often had deletions (e.g., a 20 amino acid deletion at positions 49–68 relative to A/goose/Guangdong/1/1996) that enhances replication and/or pathogenesis in terrestrial poultry and mice 456.
Analysis of the other gene segments (PB2, PB1, PA, NP, M, NS) was also conducted.
No known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral compounds that target the PA (i.e., baloxavir marboxil) or M2 (i.e., amantadine, rimantadine) were found.
In addition to the HA and NA, the RNA transcription and replication complex (PB2, PB1, PA, NP) also have species-specific determinants that impact efficient replication in humans and other mammals, particularly polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2).
The PB1, PA and NP lacked markers of mammalian adaptation.
The PB2 of this specimen had two changes compared to PB2 genes typically found in A(H5N1) viruses circulating in wild birds.
A PB2-D701N substitution was found and this is understood to be associated with mammalian adaptation because it improves RNA polymerase activity and replication efficiency in mammalian cells; based on experimental studies in mice, guinea pigs and ferrets, it has the potential to impact pathogenesis or transmission in infected mammals 7891011.
PB2 D701N substitution has previously been identified in human cases of A(H5N1) with no evidence of onward transmission among humans 12 as well as in human cases of clade 2.3.4.4b A(H5N6) 13.
The other PB2 change was Q591K; this substitution has been less frequently identified and is also associated with enhanced replication efficiency in mammalian cells and increased pathogenesis in experimentally infected mice 1415.
This change has also been identified in human cases of A(H5N1) in the past.
The combination of PB2 substitutions of Q591K and D701N have previously been detected in zoonotic avian A(H7N9) viruses 16.
It is important to note that these two substitutions are not typical of closely related PB2 genes in viruses circulating in wild birds or poultry in the surrounding area in Chile, strongly suggesting they were acquired in the patient during the course of illness.
Viruses can undergo changes in a host as they replicate after infection, and it is not uncommon or surprising for A(H5N1) viruses to undergo these and other polymerase gene changes in patients who experience prolonged infection and severe illness.
The protein products from the M (M1 and M2) and NS (N1 and N2) genes lacked markers associated with mammalian adaptation.
Collectively, epidemiologic, and viral genomic analyses found that this case represents a single zoonotic event and while the HA lacked changes likely to enhance transmission to mammals, it did acquire substitutions in PB2 likely to enhance replication in mammals, which illustrates that we have to remain vigilant and characterize zoonotic viruses.
Acknowledgement: We thank the National Influenza Center in Chile for their excellent work in identification, response, communication, and sharing of the genomic sequence data in a publicly accessible database.
Available H5N1 Technical Reports Technical Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses (cdc.gov) – October 27, 2023 Technical Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses (cdc.gov) – October 5, 2023 Technical Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses (cdc.gov) – July 7, 2023 Addendum: Human Infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in Chile (cdc.gov) – April 17, 2023 Technical Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses (cdc.gov) – March 17, 2023 ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Available H5N1 Technical Reports RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 3, 2024 H5N1 Bird Flu Poses Low Risk to the Public First Human Influenza A(H5N1) (Bird Flu) Virus Infections in Cambodia Reported for 2024 New Study Highlights Importance of Bird Flu Surveillance in Live Bird Markets VIEW ALL Bird Flu First Human Influenza A(H5N1) (Bird Flu) Virus Infections in Cambodia Reported for 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Partnering for Vaccine Equity EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About P4VE Program P4VE Partner Spotlights VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 6, 2025 Partnering for Vaccine Equity (P4VE) Program KEY POINTS CDC’s Partnering for Vaccine Equity (P4VE) program equitably improves vaccination coverage through funded partnerships.
Partner activities include engaging trusted messengers, holding vaccine clinics, and educating community members and healthcare providers.
Overview CDC’s Partnering for Vaccine Equity (P4VE) program improves vaccination coverage across disproportionately affected populations through funded partnerships.
CDC launched the P4VE program in 2021 with supplemental COVID-19 funding.
CDC awarded this funding to partners via cooperative agreements.
The funding for the initial P4VE program focused on increasing COVID-19 and flu vaccine uptake for adults in racial and ethnic minority communities.
In 2024, CDC redefined the P4VE program to include all partners funded to address vaccine equity for both children and adults and across multiple priority populations.
This shift allows the program to continue despite the loss of COVID-19 funding and many projects coming to an end.
It is also more inclusive of the work that CDC’s funded partners are doing to address vaccine equity across all ages and various priority populations.
Work to advance vaccine equity for adults in racial and ethnic minority communities is still a critical part of P4VE.
Partners work to increase coverage for COVID-19, flu, and other immunizations recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
Impact As of April 2024, P4VE partners have: Trained over 410,000 trusted messengers to conduct vaccine education and outreach in their communities Engaged more than 4 million people from racial and ethnic minority communities through promotional events Reached more than 572,000 clinicians and healthcare personnel through training and communication efforts Administered 2.4 million COVID-19 and flu vaccinations Launched 674 educational campaigns in 45 languages Why it matters There are many factors that create challenges to equitably increasing vaccination coverage for children and adults, such as: Education, income, and wealth gaps Job access and working conditions Racism and other forms of discrimination Gaps in healthcare access Transportation and neighborhood conditions Reimbursement (for adult vaccines)/cost Our approach Our approach to this work is guided by four overarching strategies: Funding partners to equitably improve vaccine access, confidence, and demand Providing funded partners with the technical support needed to help achieve immunization goals Monitoring and evaluating funded partner activities to inform program improvement Raising program awareness and demonstrating program impacts Partner activities include: Hosting community outreach events to spread awareness about vaccines Working within communities to train and leverage trusted messengers Partner with vaccine providers to identify locations and hold vaccine clinics Develop educational materials and launch communications campaigns to promote vaccination Evaluate and disseminate best practices Partner Spotlights Discover the achievements of some of our funded partners in promoting vaccine equity within communities.
This collection of stories highlights their innovative efforts and significant accomplishments, showcasing how they are building healthier and more resilient communities.
Explore Stories Sign up for our newsletter To stay up to date with vaccine equity and partner news, sign up for our biweekly Partner Digest.
Contacts For questions or comments about the P4VE program, e-mail PHEBranch@cdc.gov.
Selected publications Program implementation Yang C, Zajac J, Asif A, et al.
Partnering for Vaccine Equity (P4VE) Program May 2021-March 2022.
Piasecki AM, Hall DM, Zajac J, Miller SA, Nilson JR.
A programmatic update on COVID-19 vaccination in rural communities in the United States .
April 2024.
doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2024.04.043.
Stone ND, Fiebelkorn AP, Guo A, et al.
Challenges and opportunities during the COVID-19 vaccination efforts in long-term care .
January 2024.
doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2023.12.064.
Ashenafi SG, Martinez GM, Jatlaoui TC, et al.
Design and implementation of a federal program to engage community partners to reduce disparities in adult COVID-19 immunization uptake, United States, 2021-2022 .
Public Health Rep.
December 2023.
doi: 10.1177/00333549231208642.
Koppaka R, Wharton M, Lindley MC, Kohli J, Morita J.
Increasing equity in adult immunization through community-level action .
Health Aff Sch.
December 2023.
doi: 10.1093/haschl/qxad071.
Association of Immunization Managers.
Lessons learned report: national environmental scan .
November 2023.
Association of Immunization Managers.
Lessons learned report: building vaccine equity for COVID-19 and flu vaccination in REACH communities .
November 2023.
Disparities in vaccination Hill YA, Yankey D, Elam-Evans LD, et al.
Declining in vaccination coverage by age 24 months and vaccination inequities among children born in 2020 and 2021 — National Immunization Survey-Child, United States, 2021-2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.
September 2024.
Valier MR, Yankey D, Elam-Evans LD, et al.
Vital Signs: trends and disparities in childhood vaccination coverage by Vaccines for Children program eligibility — National Immunization Survey, United States, 2012-2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.
August 2024.
Elam-Evans LD, Jones CP, Vashist K, et al.
The association of reported experiences of racial and ethnic discrimination in health care with COVID-19 vaccination status and intent — United States, April 22, 2021–November 26, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.
April 2023.
Saelee R, Zell E, Murthy BP, et al.
Disparities in COVID-19 vaccination coverage between urban and rural counties — United States, December 14, 2020–January 31, 2022.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.
March 2022.
Resources Championing Change: A Toolkit for Addressing Vaccine Equity Through Community Mobilization ON THIS PAGE Overview Impact Why it matters Our approach Sign up for our newsletter Contacts Selected publications Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE P4VE CDC’s Partnering for Vaccine Equity (P4VE) program equitably improves vaccine access, confidence, and demand through funded partnerships.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All JANUARY 31, 2024 ESPAÑOL New Study Highlights Importance of Bird Flu Surveillance in Live Bird Markets HIGHLIGHTS A new CDC co-authored study published in Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses describes findings from avian influenza A(H5) virus surveillance in live bird markets (LBMs) across Vietnam over a nearly six-year period (March 2017- September 2022).
CDC Update January 31, 2024 – A new CDC co-authored study published in Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses describes findings from avian influenza A(H5) virus surveillance in live bird markets (LBMs) across Vietnam over a nearly six-year period (March 2017- September 2022).
The study found almost 40% of samples taken from LBMs in Vietnam were positive for influenza A viruses with the prevalence of H5 bird flu increasing in 2022.
Active surveillance (regular testing) was better at detection than passive surveillance (receiving reports), especially when poultry did not show signs of illness.
This study underscores how LBM surveillance remains a vitally important activity for situational awareness around bird flu, bird flu mitigation, and pandemic preparedness activities.
LBMs, where large numbers of live birds are bought or traded, are commonplace in many parts of the world, including Vietnam.
LBMs are settings where many different avian influenza viruses can be found, and this raises the risk for human infections or new avian influenza viruses emerging through genetic reassortment (mixing of virus genes).
For this study, two methods were used to capture the percent positivity and geographic distribution of avian influenza A(H5) detections: Passive surveillance of influenza A(H5N1), A(H5N6), and A(H5N8) where outbreaks were reported to the Vietnamese Department of Animal Health.
Active surveillance of influenza A, A(H5), A(H5N1), A(H5N6), and A(H5N8) viruses where 30 poultry oropharyngeal swab specimens and five environmental samples were collected monthly at each LBM.
From March 2017 to September 2022, 128,870 specimens were collected at 167 LBMs in 24 provinces.
Almost 40% of pooled samples (samples pooled into groups of five) were positive for influenza A.
Influenza A(H5) virus was detected in LBMs at least once in more than 90% of provinces and more than half of LBMs sampled in Vietnam.
The prevalence of A(H5) in LBMs also increased during 2022 to 6%.
During the same time period, there were 246 A(H5) outbreaks in poultry; most outbreaks were of influenza A(H5N6) followed by A(H5N1) and A(H5N8).
Active surveillance captured more influenza A(H5) virus activity than what was passively reported through outbreaks.
In addition to finding year-round circulation of A(H5) virus in poultry and LBM environmental samples in Vietnam, the study authors also found differences in geographic and annual temporal patterns of avian influenza: Influenza A(H5N1) and A(H5N6) viruses circulated across all sampled regions.
Higher A(H5N1) positivity rates were observed in LBMs in the Southern region Higher A(H5N6) positivity rates were observed in LBMs in the Central region Influenza A(H5N8) virus was only detected in LBMs in the Northern and Southern areas.
Influenza A(H5) positivity rate was higher in LBMs in the Southern provinces.
(This may reflect the higher number of domestic ducks living in these areas.) These study findings further support the value of partnerships to enhance global influenza surveillance.
The first collaboration between Vietnam's National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE) and CDC began in 1999 with sero-epidemiology studies of H5 and H9 among poultry workers in LBMs in Hanoi, and this work built capacity at NIHE which was critical in the response to the SARS outbreak of 2003.
From 2003 to 2022, 127 infections and 64 deaths with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) viruses have been detected in people living in Vietnam.
Since 2013, avian influenza surveillance has been conducted in provinces in Vietnam with active LBMs through a collaboration between the Vietnamese Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Department of Animal Health (DAH), and CDC.
The current risk to the U.S.
public from HPAI A(H5) viruses in Vietnam remains low.
However, because of the potential for influenza viruses to rapidly evolve and the wide global prevalence of HPAI A(H5) viruses in wild birds and poultry outbreaks, continued sporadic human infections are anticipated.
Continued comprehensive surveillance of these viruses in LBMs and frequent risk assessments, are critical to a continuous public health risk assessment, along with ongoing preparedness efforts.
Global influenza surveillance, both epidemiologic and virologic, is the foundation of influenza preparedness and response for influenza, including avian influenza.
More information on avian flu is available on CDC's avian influenza website.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone FEBRUARY 12, 2024 ESPAÑOL First Human Influenza A(H5N1) (Bird Flu) Virus Infections in Cambodia Reported for 2024 WHAT TO KNOW This CDC spotlight article was published on February 12, 2024.
Cambodia reported four human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) (bird flu) virus that were identified in late January and early February 2024.
These were the first human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) virus identified in Cambodia in 2024.
CDC Update February 12, 2024 — Cambodia has reported four recent human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) (bird flu) virus.
These are the first human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) virus identified in Cambodia in 2024.
The four infections occurred in three children, one of whom died, and an adult, all of which were identified in late January and early February.
All patients reportedly had a history of recent exposure to sick or dead poultry prior to their illness.
Currently, there is no indication of person-to-person spread associated with these four cases of H5N1 virus infection in Cambodia, and they are not thought to pose a threat to the health of the U.S.
The first two patients were epidemiologically unrelated and were admitted to different hospitals in Cambodia; they both recovered and were discharged home.
The third patient died shortly after transfer to a pediatric hospital in the capital, and the fourth patient was admitted for monitoring and treatment.
The third and fourth patients are siblings but lived in different villages; dead poultry were brought from the household of the fourth patient to the household of the third patient, and both siblings were exposed.
Investigations are ongoing to monitor their close contacts and to identify any additional infections.
CDC is working closely with the Ministry of Health's Cambodia Communicable Disease Control (C-CDC) Department, the National Institute of Public Health in Cambodia (NIPH), the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Institut Pasteur du Cambodge (IPC), the World Health Organization, the United States Agency for International Development, the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the Wildlife Conservation Society of Cambodia in a One Health approach to respond to these sporadic human infections.
Genetic sequencing of the first and third patients' specimens by IPC and NIPH identified both H5N1 viruses as H5 clade 2.3.2.1c, which has circulated in Cambodia among birds and poultry for many years.
This H5 virus clade 2.3.2.1c in Cambodia is different from the H5N1 virus that has caused wild bird and poultry outbreaks in the United States (clade 2.3.4.4b) and other countries.
Genetic sequencing of the fourth patient's specimens is in process.
Six sporadic human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) bird flu virus occurred in Cambodia last year (February, October, and November 2023).
Additional sporadic human infections are not unexpected in people with direct or close unprotected exposures to sick or dead poultry infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus in areas with endemic spread among poultry.
Four of the six human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) viruses in Cambodia during 2023 were fatal.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights H5N1 Bird Flu Poses Low Risk to the Public Human Infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in Chile New Study Highlights Importance of Bird Flu Surveillance in Live Bird Markets Cambodia: Two Fatal Human Influenza A/H5N1 (Bird Flu) Virus Infections VIEW ALL Bird Flu New Study Highlights Importance of Bird Flu Surveillance in Live Bird Markets SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All New Wild to Mild Campaign Drives Key Message to Tame Flu and Reset Expectations For Everyone SEPT.
22, 2023 AT A GLANCE This spotlight article was published on September 22, 2023.
A new CDC flu vaccine campaign aims to reset public expectations around the benefits of flu vaccination.
Flu vaccination can reduce the risk of serious flu illness in people who get vaccinated but still get sick.
CDC update September 22, 2023—This fall CDC launched a new flu vaccine campaign called Wild to Mild to share key information with the public about how getting a flu vaccine can reduce your risk of flu and its potentially serious outcomes.
The campaign focuses on encouraging flu vaccination among higher risk groups, especially pregnant women and children, given drops in vaccination uptake in those groups since the COVID-19 pandemic.
While seasonal flu activity is low across most of the United States, September marks the beginning of the optimal window for most people to get their annual flu vaccine.
The Wild to Mild campaign is based on consumer research showing that many people believe flu vaccination doesn't work because of first or second-hand experience where vaccination may not have prevented illness.
Flu vaccine varies in how well it works.
For many years, CDC measured vaccine effectiveness according to how well it prevented illness that required medical treatment.
In recent years, however, CDC has expanded its vaccine effectiveness work to include looking at how well flu vaccine works at preventing serious outcomes, like emergency department visits and hospitalizations.
This work has contributed to a strong and growing body of evidence that flu vaccination reduces the risk of serious outcomes in people who get vaccinated but still get sick.
The Wild to Mild campaign visually shows how flu vaccination can tame flu illness from wild to mild by showing a wild animal, like a tiger, juxtaposed against a more domesticated animal or toy like a kitten.
Other examples include a bear with a teddy bear and a shark with a goldfish.
The intent of the Wild to Mild campaign is to reset public expectations around what a flu vaccine can do in the event that it does not entirely prevent illness.
Participants found this information useful and even motivational in consumer testing.
For pregnant women, the information about how vaccination during pregnancy could not only protect the pregnant woman but also her baby for several months after birth was particularly persuasive.
Everyone 6 months and older should get a flu shot.
September and October are the best times for most people to get their annual flu vaccine.
This season's Wild to Mild campaign is part of an annual educational effort to encourage vaccination among Americans, including among people who are at higher risk of serious flu complications.
A separate campaign, "Get My Flu Shot ," which is a collaboration between the CDC, American Medical Association, and the Ad Council, focuses on trying to reduce long-standing disparities in flu vaccine coverage among Black and Hispanic Americans.
The Wild to Mild campaign is mainly digital and will include social media content, micro-influencer partnerships, and paid placement of educational ads in various online channels and radio spots.
Promotional graphics encouraging social media interaction with friends and loved ones also are available.
In recent weeks, influenza A(H1N1) and influenza B viruses have been detected at low levels in the United States, with most of these viruses being similar to the viruses that spread most commonly in the Southern Hemisphere during its flu season.
Data from several South American countries showed flu vaccination during their season reduced flu hospitalizations against the predominant flu viruses, influenza A(H1N1), by 55% and against influenza B viruses by 46%.
Last flu season started early in the United States, with activity increasing nationally at the beginning of October 2022 and peaking in early December 2022.
CDC expects multiple viruses to spread this fall and winter, including flu, COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
Respiratory diseases can be very serious, especially among people at higher risk of developing serious complications, and CDC urges everyone to get up to date on their recommended vaccines.
You can use Vaccines.gov to find a flu vaccine near you.
RELATED PAGES What's New Influenza Activity in the United States during the 2022–23 Season and Composition of the 2023–24 Influenza Vaccine New CDC Study Looks at Flu Severity by Virus Type and Subtype Flu Vaccination Rates Lag Among Health Care Workers in Peru South America's 2023 Flu Vaccines Cut Risk of Flu Hospitalizations by About Half VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Flu Vaccination Rates Lag Among Health Care Workers in Peru SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone APRIL 30, 2024 ESPAÑOL H5N1 Bird Flu Poses Low Risk to the Public WHAT TO KNOW March 7, 2022—To date, highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses ("H5N1 bird flu viruses") have been detected in U.S.
wild birds in 14 states and in commercial and backyard poultry in 13 states, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspective Service (APHIS).
Based on available epidemiologic and virologic information about these viruses, CDC believes that the risk to the general public's health from current H5N1 bird flu viruses is low, however some people may have job-related or recreational exposures to birds that put them at higher risk of infection.
CDC is watching this situation closely and taking routine preparedness and prevention measures in case this virus changes to pose a greater human health risk.
CDC Update Right now, the H5N1 bird flu situation is primarily an animal health issue.
Department of Interior and USDA APHIS are the lead federal agencies for this situation.
They are respectively responsible for outbreak investigation and control of bird flu in wild birds and in domestic birds (poultry).
USDA has publicly posted the genetic sequences of several of the recently detected U.S.
H5N1 bird flu viruses.
These viruses are from clade 2.3.4.4b1, which is the most common H5N1 bird flu virus worldwide at this time.
Comparing information about these newer viruses to previously circulating H5N1 bird flu viruses helps inform the human health risk assessment.
Ancestors of the H5N1 bird flu viruses infecting wild birds and poultry in the U.S.
beginning in 2021 first emerged in southern China in 1996 and caused large poultry outbreaks in Hong Kong in 1997, which resulted in 18 human infections.
The bird outbreak was controlled, but H5N1 bird flu viruses re-surfaced in 2003 to spread widely in birds throughout Asia, and later in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East, causing poultry outbreaks and sporadic human infections.
Related H5N1 bird flu viruses were even found in wild birds and poultry in the U.S.
and Canada during 2014 and 2015, causing large poultry outbreaks, but then they disappeared.
Since 2003, the World Health Organization (WHO) , has received reports from 19 countries of more than 860 human infections with H5N1 bird flu viruses, with about 53 percent of those resulting in death.
CDC has spent many years studying the properties of H5N1 viruses over the years.
Information on Current H5N1 Viruses Current H5N1 bird flu viruses were first identified in Europe during the fall of 2020 and spread across Europe and into Africa, the Middle East and Asia, becoming the predominant subtype globally by fall of 2021.
These viruses have been spreading in wild birds in much of the world and causing sporadic poultry infections and poultry outbreaks in many countries, most recently the United States .
CDC has been comparing the properties of current H5N1 bird flu viruses to past H5N1 bird flu viruses and has found that current H5N1 bird flu viruses detected in the U.S.
during late 2021 and 2022 are different from earlier H5N1 bird flu viruses.
So far, current H5N1 bird flu viruses lack changes seen in the past that have been associated with viruses spreading easily among poultry, infecting people more easily, and causing severe illness in people.
There is little information about the spectrum of illness that could result from human infections with current H5N1 bird flu viruses.
At this time, only one human infection with current H5N1 bird flu viruses has been reported.
That infection was found in January 2022 in a person in the United Kingdom who did not have any symptoms and who raised birds that became infected with H5N1 bird flu viruses.
No human infections with H5N1 bird flu viruses have ever been identified in the U.S.
Based on information at this time, it may be that current H5N1 viruses offer less of a risk to human health than earlier H5N1 viruses.
USDA Annoucement Some of the recent H5N1 bird flu infections in the United States have occurred in commercially raised turkeys.
In mid-January, USDA first announced finding H5N1 bird flu viruses in wild birds .
This was followed by announcements of outbreaks of H5N1 bird flu in commercial poultry and backyard flocks.
Based on available genetic sequence data of current H5N1 bird flu viruses, CDC has determined: An H5 candidate vaccine virus (CVV) recently produced by CDC is nearly identical to the HA of recently detected H5N1 viruses in birds and could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed.
These viruses are susceptible to currently available antiviral medications used to treat seasonal flu.
These viruses can be detected using CDC's diagnostic tools for seasonal influenza viruses which are used at more than 100 public health laboratories in all 50 U.S.
states and internationally as well.
What is CDC Doing?
Because flu viruses are constantly changing, CDC will continue to monitor these viruses to look for genetic or epidemiologic changes suggesting they might spread more easily to and between people, and cause serious illness in people, or for changes that suggest reduced susceptibility to antivirals, as well as changes in the virus that might mean a new CVV should be developed.
CDC is working with USDA and state public health partners to monitor for potential infections in exposed persons in the states where H5N1 bird flu virus detections have occurred.
If human infections with H5N1 bird flu virus are identified, CDC will help with surveillance, contact tracing, and other steps to monitor for and reduce spread in affected jurisdictions.
At this time, more than 140 people in the U.S.
who have had H5N1 exposures with infected birds/poultry have been or are being monitored for symptoms and no cases of H5N1 infection have been found.
CDC is conducting additional laboratory work to further characterize current H5N1 bird flu viruses.
CDC is providing guidance including recommendations for personal protective equipment and information for people exposed to birds infected with avian influenza viruses and guidance for testing and treatment.
A review of these guidance documents for any needed updates is ongoing.
What Might Happen Given past human infections with bird flu viruses resulting from close contact with infected birds/poultry, sporadic human infections with current H5N1 bird flu viruses would not be surprising, especially among people with exposures who may not be taking recommended precautions (like wearing personal protective equipment, for example).
Sporadic infections like that would not change CDC’s risk assessment.
However, identification of multiple instances of H5N1 bird flu viruses spreading from birds to people, or of changes in the virus associated with adaptation to mammals, would raise CDC’s risk assessment.
These changes could indicate the virus is adapting to spread more readily from birds to people.
If limited, non-sustained human-to-human spread with this virus were to occur, that also would raise the public health threat because it could mean the virus is adapting to spread better between people.
Note that sustained human-to-human spread is needed for a pandemic to occur.
What To Do As a general precaution, people should avoid direct contact with wild birds and observe them only from a distance, if possible.
Wild birds can be infected with bird flu viruses without appearing sick.
If possible, avoid contact with poultry that appear ill or have died.
Avoid contact with surfaces that appear to be contaminated with feces from wild or domestic birds, if possible.
CDC has information about precautions to take with wild birds.
CDC also has guidance for specific groups of people with exposure to poultry, including poultry workers and people responding to poultry outbreaks.
If you must handle wild birds or sick or dead poultry, minimize direct contact by wearing gloves and wash your hands with soap and water after touching birds.
If available, wear respiratory protection such as a medical facemask.
Change your clothing before contact with healthy domestic poultry and birds after handling wild birds, and discard the gloves and facemask, and then wash your hands with soap and water.
Additional information is available at Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern.
As a reminder, it is safe to eat properly handled and cooked poultry and poultry products in the United States.
The proper handling and cooking of poultry and eggs to an internal temperature of 165˚F kills bacteria and viruses, including H5N1 bird flu viruses.
Human Infections with Bird Flu Viruses Infected birds shed bird flu viruses in their saliva, mucous and feces.
Bird flu infections among people are rare; however, human infections can happen when enough virus gets into a person's eyes, nose, or mouth, or is inhaled.
People with close or lengthy unprotected contact (not wearing respiratory protection or eye protection) with infected birds or places that sick birds or their mucous, saliva, or feces have touched, may be at greater risk of bird flu virus infection.
Illnesses in people from bird flu virus infections have ranged from mild (e.g., eye infection, upper respiratory symptoms) to severe illness (e.g., pneumonia) that can result in death.
The spread of bird flu viruses from one infected person to a close contact is very rare, and when it has happened, it has not led to continued spread among people.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Information on Current H5N1 Viruses What is CDC Doing?
What Might Happen What To Do Human Infections with Bird Flu Viruses RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 10, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 3, 2024 Human Infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in Chile First Human Influenza A(H5N1) (Bird Flu) Virus Infections in Cambodia Reported for 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Human Infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus in Chile SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Influenza, Updated COVID-19, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccination Coverage Among Adults — United States, Fall 2023 Weekly / December 22, 2023 / 72(51);1377–1382 Print Carla L.
Black, PhD1; Jennifer L.
Kriss, PhD1; Hilda Razzaghi, PhD1; Suchita A.
Patel, DO1; Tammy A.
Santibanez, PhD1; Mehreen Meghani, MPH1; Ashley Tippins, MPH1; Shannon Stokley, DrPH1; Kevin Chatham-Stephens, MD2; Nicole F.
Dowling, PhD1; Georgina Peacock, MD1; James A.
Singleton, PhD1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends that all adults receive influenza and COVID-19 vaccines, and those aged ≥60 years may receive respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine during the 2023–24 respiratory virus season.
What is added by this report?
By December 9, 2023, an estimated 42.2% and 18.3% of adults aged ≥18 years had received influenza and updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccine, respectively; 17.0% of adults aged ≥60 years had received RSV vaccine.
Many adults who had not received the vaccines reported being open to vaccination.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Strong provider recommendations for and offers of vaccination could increase influenza, COVID-19, and RSV vaccination coverage.
Immunization programs and vaccination partners might benefit from using these within-season data to understand vaccination patterns in their jurisdictions to strengthen vaccination activities.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (47) Blogs (2) Policy documents (1) X (59) Facebook (1) Clinical guidelines (1) Mendeley (7) 31 31 Total citations 30 Recent citations 17 Field Citation Ratio 3.42 Relative Citation Ratio Figures Figure 1 Figure 2 Table Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF Abstract During the 2023–24 respiratory virus season, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends influenza and COVID-19 vaccines for all persons aged ≥6 months, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine is recommended for persons aged ≥60 years (using shared clinical decision-making), and for pregnant persons.
Data from the National Immunization Survey-Adult COVID Module, a random-digit–dialed cellular telephone survey of U.S.
adults aged ≥18 years, are used to monitor influenza, COVID-19, and RSV vaccination coverage.
By December 9, 2023, an estimated 42.2% and 18.3% of adults aged ≥18 years reported receiving an influenza and updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccine, respectively; 17.0% of adults aged ≥60 years had received RSV vaccine.
Coverage varied by demographic characteristics.
Overall, approximately 27% and 41% of adults aged ≥18 years and 53% of adults aged ≥60 years reported that they definitely or probably will be vaccinated or were unsure whether they would be vaccinated against influenza, COVID-19, and RSV, respectively.
Strong provider recommendations for and offers of vaccination could increase influenza, COVID-19, and RSV vaccination coverage.
Immunization programs and vaccination partners are encouraged to use these data to understand vaccination patterns and attitudes toward vaccination in their jurisdictions to guide planning, implementation, strengthening, and evaluation of vaccination activities.
Top Introduction Influenza, SARS-CoV-2, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) typically circulate in the United States during the fall through early spring each year, causing epidemics of respiratory illness, although patterns of influenza and RSV transmission shifted during the COVID-19 pandemic (1–3).
Certain groups, including older adults (those aged ≥65 years), persons with chronic conditions, and racial and ethnic minority populations, have experienced disproportionate influenza-, COVID-19–, and RSV-associated morbidity and mortality (1–4).
Since 2010, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has recommended routine annual influenza vaccination for all persons aged ≥6 months who do not have contraindications (1).
On September 12, 2023, ACIP recommended updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccination for all persons aged ≥6 months to help protect against currently circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants (2).
In June 2023, ACIP recommended that adults aged ≥60 years may receive a single dose of RSV vaccine, using shared clinical decision-making, which is the first time a vaccine for prevention of RSV-associated respiratory disease has been recommended* (3).
CDC monitors coverage with these vaccines and makes these data available during the respiratory season for use in planning vaccination activities.
Top Methods Data Collection The National Immunization Survey-Adult COVID Module (NIS-ACM) is a random-digit–dialed cellular telephone survey of adults aged ≥18 years in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and selected local areas and U.S.
territories.
Data are weighted to represent the noninstitutionalized U.S.
population.† The survey includes questions about receipt of COVID-19, influenza, and RSV vaccines, vaccination intent, sociodemographic characteristics, and behavioral and social drivers of COVID-19 vaccination.
Respondents are asked if they have received a COVID-19 or RSV vaccine or have received an influenza vaccine since July 1, 2023, and for affirmative responses, the month and year of vaccination.§ Those reporting receipt of any COVID-19 vaccine since September 14, 2023, are considered to be vaccinated with the updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccine, because this was the only COVID-19 vaccine authorized in the United States after that date.
Data Analysis Data collected during September 24–December 9, 2023, are included in this analysis.¶ Estimates of coverage (percentage of the population vaccinated) with influenza, COVID-19, and RSV vaccines were calculated for weekly data collection periods using a nondecreasing composite estimation procedure that uses data from completed interviews from the current week combined with data from all previous weeks (5).
Estimates for vaccination intent are based on interviews conducted each respective week and are adjusted to the cumulative vaccination coverage estimate for that week.
Influenza and COVID-19 vaccination coverage is estimated among adults aged ≥18 years, and RSV vaccination coverage estimates are restricted to respondents aged ≥60 years.
This activity was reviewed by CDC, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.** Top Results Overall Vaccination Coverage and Intent As of December 9, 2023, estimated influenza and updated COVID-19 vaccination coverage among adults aged ≥18 years was 42.2% and 18.3%, respectively; estimated RSV vaccination coverage among all adults aged ≥60 years was 17.0% and among those with chronic health conditions†† was 21.4% (Figure 1) (Supplementary Table, 
From September 24 through December 9, the percentage of adults who reported being unvaccinated, but who definitely will get vaccinated, decreased over time as vaccination coverage increased, from 33.2% to 9.4% for influenza and from 28.2% to 14.1% for COVID-19 vaccines.
The decrease was less for RSV vaccine (from 20.9% to 14.1%).
Throughout the study period, the proportion of adults who were unvaccinated and reported they probably or definitely would not get vaccinated was lowest for RSV, whereas the proportion who were unvaccinated and reported they probably would get vaccinated or were unsure was highest for RSV.
Vaccination Coverage and Intent by Demographic Characteristics and Jurisdiction Coverage with all vaccines was lowest among uninsured persons.
Coverage and intent to be vaccinated increased with age and were higher among adults living in urban and suburban areas compared with those living in rural areas (Figure 2).
Influenza vaccination coverage was higher among non-Hispanic White (White) and non-Hispanic Asian (Asian) adults than among most other racial and ethnic groups.
However, the percentage of persons reporting that they probably or definitely will not get an influenza vaccination was similar among White adults (32.2%) and Black or African American (Black) adults (32.2%) and was lower among Hispanic or Latino (Hispanic) adults (24.0%).
Updated COVID-19 and RSV vaccination coverage was higher among White adults than among most other racial and ethnic groups.
However, a higher percentage of White adults reported that they probably or definitely will not receive a COVID-19 vaccine (43.2%) than did Black (31.3%) and Hispanic (34.7%) adults.
Similarly, a higher percentage of White adults reported that they probably or definitely will not receive an RSV vaccine (32.5%) than did Black (15.3%) and Hispanic (19.3%) adults.
Coverage with all vaccines varied by jurisdiction, ranging from 15.6% to 54.8% for influenza vaccine, from 2.4% to 35.6% for updated COVID-19 vaccine, and from 1.9% to 32.4% for RSV vaccine (Table).
Top Discussion As of December 9, 2023, self-reported coverage with influenza, updated COVID-19, and RSV vaccines among U.S.
adults was low, particularly for updated COVID-19 and RSV vaccines.
RSV vaccination coverage was low even among persons with chronic conditions who are at highest risk for severe RSV disease and might benefit from vaccination.
As of mid-November, influenza vaccination coverage was approximately 2.5 percentage points lower than it was at the same time during the 2022–23 influenza season (6).
Approximately 41% of all adults and 53% of adults aged ≥60 years were unvaccinated but reported that they definitely or probably plan to receive or are unsure about receiving updated COVID-19 and RSV vaccines, respectively, suggesting they are open to vaccination.
A health care provider recommendation for and offer of vaccination are strongly associated with vaccination (7).
A previous report found that unvaccinated adults who were open to receiving a bivalent COVID-19 vaccine had not yet done so mainly because of concerns about side effects, being too busy, or just had not gotten around to getting vaccinated (8).
Making vaccination available in provider offices, pharmacies, workplaces, and other convenient locations at convenient times, along with a strong provider recommendation for vaccination, could increase vaccination coverage, particularly for RSV, which is recommended on the basis of shared clinical decision-making between a patient and provider (3).
Despite disparities in vaccination coverage by race and ethnicity, when responses indicating the person is open to vaccination are included, the potential vaccination coverage that could be achieved for Hispanic, Black, and Asian adults is similar to or higher than that for White adults.
Programmatic measures that helped reduce disparities in coverage with the primary series of COVID-19 vaccine, such as making vaccines available free of charge, use of trusted messengers, and bringing vaccines into communities through nontraditional settings (e.g., local libraries and local businesses such as barber shops and restaurants)§§ (4,9), might increase equitable access to vaccination and decrease disparities for these currently recommended vaccines.
CDC is partnering with community-based organizations, health care providers, and other trusted messengers to build vaccine confidence and awareness, including through the Partnering for Vaccine Equity program.¶¶ CDC is also working to expand COVID-19 vaccine access to all through the Bridge Access Program, which provides COVID-19 vaccines for adults without health insurance and adults whose insurance does not cover all COVID-19 vaccine costs.
Public health safety net and pharmacy locations offering influenza and COVID-19 vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccines through the Bridge Access Program, are available at 
Communication campaigns,*** such as the “Wild to Mild” and “Get My Flu Shot” influenza vaccine campaign and the “Everything” broad respiratory virus communication initiative, include various materials and resources to promote vaccination, including to persons who are disproportionately affected by disease.
Finally, CDC has developed health care provider toolkits to empower providers with knowledge to confidently recommend vaccination.††† CDC makes vaccination coverage estimates rapidly available during the respiratory virus season.§§§,¶¶¶ In addition to data from the NIS-ACM, vaccination data are available from multiple sources and include coverage among children, pregnant persons, Medicare beneficiaries, and national projected vaccination in pharmacies and medical offices.
Jurisdiction-level estimates of COVID-19 vaccination coverage and intent stratified by demographic factors, behavioral and social drivers of vaccination, and barriers to vaccination are available.**** CDC’s COVID-19 Vaccination Geographic Information System Mapping Tool, designed with feedback from several local health departments, provides web maps where jurisdiction-level data including demographic characteristics and social determinants of health can be displayed along with vaccine confidence and vaccination coverage.†††† End-of-season influenza vaccination coverage estimates for children and adults since the 2010–11 influenza season, nationally and by state, are available on FluVaxView.§§§§ Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
Data were weighted to mitigate possible bias resulting from incomplete sample frame (i.e., exclusion of households with no phone service or only landline telephones) or nonresponse, but some selection bias might persist.
Second, all responses were self-reported; vaccination receipt, and month and year of receipt of most recent dose might be subject to recall or social desirability bias.
Nonresponse and social desirability bias could result in overestimation of coverage.
Third, the survey sampled noninstitutionalized U.S.
adults; therefore, adults who were incarcerated or who live in long-term care facilities¶¶¶¶ might not be represented in the sample.
Implications for Public Health Practice Although influenza, updated COVID-19, and RSV vaccination has slowed for the 2023–24 respiratory season, vaccination is recommended to continue while viruses are circulating (1–3), and many unvaccinated persons continue to report intent to be vaccinated.
Health care provider recommendations for and offers of vaccination are important to increasing vaccination coverage (7).
Immunization programs and vaccination partners are encouraged to use CDC developed dashboards and tools, as well as other data sources available to them, such as immunization information systems, to identify undervaccinated populations and better understand vaccination patterns, attitudes and behaviors, and systemic barriers to vaccination in their jurisdiction to help tailor vaccination activities to improve coverage and health equity.
Top Acknowledgments Trevor Allen, Evan Briscoe, Guillermo Bustos, Marie Castine, Daniel Hayes, Cynthia Knighton, Marcie LaRocque, Sarah McCartha, Seth Meador, Jeffrey Miszczak, Anusha Poonepalle, Susan Reeves, Karthick Ramachandran Seshadri, Angie Soto, Blesson Thomas, Troy Waddington, CDC.
Top Corresponding author: Carla L.
Black, zwc0@cdc.gov.
Top 1Immunization Services Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; 2Division of Readiness and Response Science, Office of Readiness and Response, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
 ).
Information about RSV vaccination during pregnancy and nirsevimab receipt among infants is not included in this report.
† Data were weighted to represent the noninstitutionalized U.S.
population aged ≥18 years using population control totals for age group, sex, metropolitan statistical area status, education, Hispanic origin, and race.
 § Respondents reporting receipt of an influenza vaccine since July 1, 2023, are asked the month and year of first vaccination since July 1, 2023.
Respondents reporting receipt of ≥1 dose of any COVID-19 vaccine are asked the month and year of most recent COVID-19 vaccination; if the reported month of vaccination is September 2023, they are further asked if they received a COVID-19 vaccine since September 14, 2023.
Those reporting receiving any COVID-19 vaccine since September 14, 2023, are considered vaccinated with the updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccine.
Respondents reporting receipt of RSV vaccine are asked the month and year that they received the RSV vaccine.
¶ Respondents were excluded from the analysis if they did not answer the question or questions about receipt of vaccine or intent to be vaccinated, and for RSV, if they did not report age.
Number of excluded respondents was 365 for influenza vaccination coverage assessment, 595 for COVID-19 vaccination coverage assessment, and 3,890 for RSV vaccination coverage assessment.
Sample sizes for data collected through December 9, 2023, and included in this analysis were 168,899 for influenza vaccination assessment, 168,669 for COVID-19 vaccination assessment, and 62,816 for RSV vaccination assessment.
** 45 C.F.R.
part 46.102(l)(2), 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
†† Includes persons who reported any of the following chronic conditions: chronic lung disease, diabetes, heart conditions, kidney disease, liver disease, or weakened immune system.
§§  ¶¶  ***  †††     §§§  (Accessed December 15, 2023).
¶¶¶  **** Data on updated 2023–2024 COVID-19 vaccine will be added January 24, 2024.
 ††††  §§§§  ¶¶¶¶  Top References Grohskopf LA, Blanton LH, Ferdinands JM, et al.
Prevention and control of seasonal influenza with vaccines: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices—United States, 2023–24 influenza season.
MMWR Recomm Rep 2023;72(No.
RR-1):1–25.
 PMID:36006864 Regan JJ, Moulia DL, Link-Gelles R, et al.
Use of updated COVID-19 vaccines 2023–2024 formula for persons aged ≥6 months: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices—United States, September 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:1140–6.
 PMID:37856366 Melgar M, Britton A, Roper LE, et al.
Use of respiratory syncytial virus vaccines in older adults: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices—United States, 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:793–801.
 PMID:37471262 Black CL, O’Halloran A, Hung MC, et al.; Influenza-Associated Hospitalization Surveillance Network.
Vital signs: influenza hospitalizations and vaccination coverage by race and ethnicity—United States, 2009–10 through 2021–22 influenza seasons.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:1366–73.
 PMID:36302226 Copeland KR, Ganesh N, Liu L, Santibanez TA, Singleton JA.
Statistical improvements in weekly-updated cumulative estimates of flu vaccination coverage for children in the United States.
In: Proceedings of the Survey Research Methods Section, American Statistical Association, August 8–12, 2021.
 CDC.
Influenza: weekly flu vaccination dashboard.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2023.
Accessed December 15, 2023.
 Lu PJ, Srivastav A, Amaya A, et al.
Association of provider recommendation and offer and influenza vaccination among adults aged ≥18 years—United States.
Vaccine 2018;36:890–8.
 PMID:29329685 CDC.
For immunization managers: concerns about bivalent COVID-19 vaccine and reasons for non-vaccination among adults who completed a primary series—Omnibus survey, March 10–April 30, 2023 & Household Pulse Survey, March 1–April 10, 2023.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2023.
 Kriss JL, Hung MC, Srivastav A, et al.
COVID-19 vaccination coverage, by race and ethnicity—National Immunization Survey Adult COVID Module, United States, December 2020–November 2021.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022;71:757–63.
 PMID:35679179 Top FIGURE 1.
Weekly influenza (A), updated COVID-19 (B), and respiratory syncytial virus (C) vaccination status* and vaccination intent† among adults§ — National Immunization Survey-Adult COVID Module, United States, September 24–December 9, 2023 Abbreviation: RSV = respiratory syncytial virus.
* Estimates of vaccination coverage were calculated for December 3–9, 2023 using a nondecreasing composite estimation procedure that uses data from all completed interviews during September 24–December 9, 2023: influenza (168,899), COVID-19 (168,669), and RSV (62,816).
† Estimates for vaccination intent are based on interviews conducted during December 3–9, 2023, and were adjusted to the cumulative vaccination coverage estimate for that week: influenza (14,562), COVID-19 (14,539), and RSV (5,258).
§ Estimates for influenza and COVID-19 vaccination coverage and vaccination intent are among adults aged ≥18 years.
Estimates for RSV vaccination coverage and intent are among adults aged ≥60 years.
Top FIGURE 2.
Influenza (A), updated COVID-19 (B), and respiratory syncytial virus (C) vaccination status* and vaccination intent† among adults,§ by demographic characteristics¶ — National Immunization Survey-Adult COVID Module, United States, December 3–9, 2023 Abbreviations: AI/AN = American Indian or Alaska Native; NH/OPI = Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander; RSV = respiratory syncytial virus.
* Estimates of vaccination coverage were calculated for December 3–9, 2023 using a nondecreasing composite estimation procedure that uses data from all completed interviews during September 24–December 9, 2023: influenza (168,899), COVID-19 (168,669), and RSV (62,816).
† Estimates for vaccination intent are based on interviews conducted during December 3–9, 2023, and were adjusted to the cumulative vaccination coverage estimate for that week: influenza (14,562), COVID-19 (14,539), and RSV (5,258).
§ Estimates for influenza and COVID-19 vaccination coverage and vaccination intent are among adults aged ≥18 years.
Estimates for RSV vaccination coverage and intent are among adults aged ≥60 years.
¶ Persons of Hispanic or Latino (Hispanic) origin might be of any race but are categorized as Hispanic; all racial groups are non-Hispanic.
Coverage with influenza, updated COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus vaccines among adults,* by jurisdiction — National Immunization Survey-Adult COVID Module, United States, September 24–December 9, 2023 Jurisdiction Influenza COVID-19 RSV Cumulative unweighted no.
% Vaccinated (95% CI)† Cumulative unweighted no.
% Vaccinated (95% CI)† Cumulative unweighted no.
% Vaccinated (95% CI)† Alabama 4,015 39.1 (35.4–42.8) 4,010 11.4 (9.3–13.4) 1,740 12.1 (8.4–15.7) Alaska 2,079 39.7 (35.3–44.2) 2,075 16.0 (13.0–19.0) 734 21.3 (16.1–26.6) Arizona 5,023 41.0 (37.5–44.5) 5,017 17.7 (15.4–20.1) 2,129 22.0 (17.4–26.6) Arkansas 2,599 42.2 (37.0–47.3) 2,591 14.5 (11.1–17.8) 1,037 14.7 (9.7–19.8) California 4,232 44.9 (40.6–49.2) 4,227 20.0 (16.8–23.1) 1,300 16.4 (10.5–22.3) Colorado 3,686 49.1 (45.0–53.3) 3,680 25.7 (22.3–29.2) 1,308 32.4 (25.9–39.0) Connecticut 1,235 47.0 (39.2–54.8) 1,233 23.6 (16.1–31.0) 212 24.1 (11.1–37.1) Delaware 2,530 51.2 (43.9–58.6) 2,527 23.1 (17.7–28.6) 1,194 17.2 (12.6–21.8) District of Columbia 4,307 52.9 (49.2–56.5) 4,304 35.6 (32.2–38.9) 1,291 20.7 (16.3–25.2) Florida 2,045 36.0 (30.0–41.9) 2,043 10.9 (7.8–14.1) 733 20.7 (13.0–28.4) Georgia 1,132 33.3 (25.3–41.3) 1,132 11.2 (5.1–17.3) 222 9.4 (5.2–13.7) Hawaii 3,323 46.1 (42.0–50.1) 3,319 20.1 (17.2–22.9) 1,421 19.2 (14.9–23.5) Idaho 1,474 34.8 (29.7–39.9) 1,472 16.5 (12.9–20.2) 502 21.0 (13.9–28.2) Illinois 7,190 48.0 (44.9–51.2) 7,175 24.6 (22.0–27.2) 2,662 20.3 (16.7–23.8) Indiana 2,678 39.5 (35.7–43.3) 2,671 16.8 (13.9–19.6) 1,003 14.5 (11.2–17.9) Iowa 1,510 46.1 (38.3–53.9) 1,509 26.8 (18.7–34.9) 583 22.9 (7.3–38.5) Kansas 2,875 44.7 (39.6–49.7) 2,871 20.0 (16.1–23.8) 960 22.4 (15.0–29.8) Kentucky 2,290 39.6 (32.6–46.7) 2,287 14.8 (8.8–20.7) 804 22.9 (7.7–38.2) Louisiana 3,719 36.8 (33.0–40.5) 3,713 10.1 (8.0–12.1) 1,542 13.8 (10.4–17.2) Maine 4,291 49.2 (42.6–55.9) 4,287 28.8 (22.7–34.8) 1,949 18.0 (11.7–24.4) Maryland 2,263 46.7 (41.2–52.2) 2,261 24.7 (17.7–31.7) 471 29.3 (17.2–41.3) Massachusetts 4,696 50.7 (47.5–54.0) 4,689 28.4 (25.8–31.0) 1,764 23.9 (18.7–29.1) Michigan 1,080 43.6 (35.4–51.7) 1,079 18.1 (12.2–23.9) 226 13.8 (5.2–22.4) Minnesota 3,154 48.0 (44.6–51.4) 3,149 31.5 (28.4–34.5) 1,316 19.3 (15.2–23.4) Mississippi 2,663 32.2 (27.9–36.5) 2,663 7.3 (4.9–9.8) 1,106 10.8 (6.0–15.6) Missouri 1,211 43.3 (34.9–51.7) 1,213 21.1 (14.4–27.7) 315 14.1 (2.8–25.3) Montana 3,301 39.4 (34.8–44.0) 3,292 20.9 (16.9–24.8) 1,510 17.1 (12.0–22.2) Nebraska 1,990 47.9 (40.7–55.2) 1,986 18.7 (12.5–24.9) 715 20.7 (10.4–31.0) Nevada 4,243 34.6 (31.7–37.4) 4,234 14.9 (12.9–16.9) 1,678 19.7 (15.9–23.5) New Hampshire 4,620 51.0 (47.4–54.7) 4,619 27.6 (24.6–30.7) 2,276 17.6 (14.6–20.7) New Jersey 3,780 45.7 (41.6–49.9) 3,770 19.1 (16.2–22.0) 1,350 14.6 (9.3–19.8) New Mexico 4,041 44.5 (40.9–48.1) 4,034 19.8 (17.3–22.2) 1,596 23.3 (19.3–27.3) New York 5,101 43.0 (39.7–46.2) 5,093 16.3 (14.3–18.4) 1,419 10.8 (8.2–13.5) North Carolina 4,240 43.9 (40.3–47.4) 4,234 18.3 (15.6–21.0) 1,618 16.0 (12.4–19.6) North Dakota 1,880 43.9 (39.5–48.2) 1,877 17.7 (14.6–20.8) 684 16.8 (10.4–23.2) Ohio 1,148 44.1 (36.5–51.7) 1,148 17.5 (12.2–22.7) 206 19.9 (9.3–30.5) Oklahoma 4,872 39.8 (36.7–42.9) 4,866 13.6 (11.7–15.5) 1,938 17.3 (13.9–20.8) Oregon 3,080 40.8 (37.1–44.5) 3,078 25.0 (21.6–28.5) 1,200 20.3 (15.8–24.7) Pennsylvania 8,446 43.4 (40.8–46.0) 8,432 19.8 (17.8–21.7) 3,217 14.4 (10.3–18.6) Puerto Rico 4,742 28.3 (25.8–30.8) 4,735 5.3 (4.2–6.4) 1,911 4.1 (2.3–6.0) Rhode Island 894 44.4 (36.6–52.2) 895 27.0 (19.1–35.0) 138 10.9 (2.0–19.7) South Carolina 2,951 42.5 (36.6–48.3) 2,955 16.7 (11.9–21.4) 1,285 10.1 (7.3–12.9) South Dakota 3,794 49.4 (45.5–53.3) 3,790 20.0 (17.4–22.6) 1,711 15.5 (12.2–18.9) Tennessee 855 35.6 (27.7–43.4) 853 11.4 (5.8–17.0) 183 8.8 (2.4–15.3) Texas 9,153 40.1 (34.9–45.4) 9,136 15.2 (11.0–19.4) 2,964 14.6 (10.2–19.0) U.S.
Virgin Islands 1,782 15.6 (12.5–18.6) 1,784 2.4 (1.5–3.3) 876 1.9 (0.9–2.9) Utah 854 41.2 (33.7–48.7) 852 15.0 (9.7–20.3) 175 19.9 (4.4–35.4) Vermont 831 54.8 (44.9–64.8) 831 32.0 (24.9–39.0) 164 21.8 (10.5–33.0) Virginia 5,900 47.5 (45.0–50.1) 5,890 22.4 (20.5–24.3) 2,034 18.5 (15.5–21.5) Washington 1,445 41.5 (35.0–48.0) 1,440 21.7 (15.9–27.6) 278 20.2 (12.0–28.4) West Virginia 1,886 44.8 (35.9–53.7) 1,888 16.4 (9.6–23.2) 771 7.7 (5.5–10.0) Wisconsin 2,690 46.4 (41.8–51.0) 2,684 23.7 (20.1–27.3) 1,054 14.3 (10.3–18.2) Wyoming 3,080 35.6 (32.3–38.8) 3,076 14.9 (12.7–17.0) 1,341 16.6 (12.8–20.5) Range across jurisdictions — 15.6–54.8 — 2.4–35.6 — 1.9–32.4 Abbreviation: RSV = respiratory syncytial virus.
* Estimates presented for influenza and COVID-19 vaccination are among adults aged ≥18 years.
Estimates for RSV vaccination are among adults aged ≥60 years.
Estimates of vaccination coverage were calculated for December 3–9, 2023 using a nondecreasing composite estimation procedure, which uses data collected from all completed interviews during September 24–December 9, 2023: influenza (168,899), COVID-19 (168,669), and RSV (62,816).
† Weighted percentage.
Top Suggested citation for this article: Black CL, Kriss JL, Razzaghi H, et al.
Influenza, Updated COVID-19, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccination Coverage Among Adults — United States, Fall 2023.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:1377–1382.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Reports of Avian Influenza (AI) "Bird Flu" Outbreaks Increased Globally from 2013–2022 For Everyone SEPT.
7, 2023 HIGHLIGHTS A new CDC study shows the number of reported avian influenza (AI) "bird flu" outbreaks in animals and infections in people are increasing worldwide.
CDC Update September 7, 2023—A new CDC study shows the number of reported avian influenza (AI) "bird flu" outbreaks in animals and infections in people are increasing worldwide.
During 2013–2022, bird flu outbreaks in animals and infections in people not only increased in numbers but also were detected over a growing geographic area as well as among a growing number of different animal categories.
These findings are particularly relevant given ongoing H5 bird flu outbreaks globally and in the United States among commercial and backyard poultry and wild birds and sporadically in some mammals, with one reported human case in the United States and others reported internationally.
Study authors looked at bird flu outbreaks in animals globally reported to the World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) and other animal health authorities and bird flu infections in people reported to the World Health Organization during 2013–2022.
They compared these findings with reports submitted during 2005–2012.
Study findings include: The number of reported bird flu outbreaks in animals increased.
Animal categories with bird flu outbreaks included wild birds, captive birds, birds in live bird markets, backyard and commercial poultry and non-human mammals, such as mink.
From January 2013 to June 2022, there were reports of 34 bird flu virus subtypes during more than 21,000 bird flu outbreaks in animals and 2,000 human infections with bird flu viruses globally.
On average 42 member states reported AI outbreaks in animals each year.
On average, four member-states reported human AI virus infections each year.
In total, 16 new bird flu subtypes were detected; 10 of these were new highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus subtypes identified in animals, including birds (almost double the number of subtypes identified during the previous eight years).
Six low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) virus subtypes identified in animals, including birds, were reported for the first time during 2013–2022.
Four HPAI H5 virus subtypes accounted for almost 90% of reported animal outbreaks: H5N1 (47%), H5N8 (32%), H5N2 (6%), H5N6 (4%).
H5N8 was the virus subtype that accounted for the most global animal outbreaks each year since 2017, except during 2019 and 2022.
During 2013–2022, 26 member-states reported their first animal AI outbreak.
Eight member-states did not report a human case prior to 2013.
Bird flu viruses also moved into more animal categories.
From 2016 to 2022, on average, 14% of outbreaks reported each month occurred in a new animal category, with wild birds representing the highest percentage (37%).
Increases in geographic and animal category spread could be attributed to increased poultry production and commercial trade, increased exposure to wild birds through repeated annual migrations of infected birds, and changes in migration patterns because of climate change or land conversion to agricultural production.
These increases could also reflect better AI virus surveillance and reporting.
Spread of bird flu viruses among birds, animals and people can have important public health implications.
As animal outbreaks increase, the risk of spread to people can also increase, along with opportunities for viral reassortment that can enhance transmissibility of avian influenza viruses.
The most effective AI surveillance would include comprehensive surveillance, inclusive of all virus subtypes, as well as timely reporting in domestic and wild birds, humans and, ideally, non-human mammals especially pigs, as pigs can play a crucial role in novel influenza virus reassortment.
Efficient and sustained transmission among people could result in a flu pandemic.
While the recent detections of H5N1 bird flu in U.S.
poultry and wild birds are thought to pose a low risk to the health of the general public at this time, human infections are possible.
As of August 9, 2023, more than 58.7 million poultry and more than 7,100 wild birds have been affected in the United States.
While only one human case of H5N1 has been found in a person in the United States, CDC continues to help monitor for additional infections among people with contact with infected birds.
To date, more than 6,500 people in the United States who have had exposure to birds/poultry infected with H5N1 have been or are being monitored for symptoms.
The trends highlighted in this report underscore that the reasons for concerns around bird flu are growing rather than diminishing and the importance of continued monitoring and timely reporting of bird flu in animals and humans in the United States and internationally.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights New Study Highlights Importance of Bird Flu Surveillance in Live Bird Markets Cambodia: Two Fatal Human Influenza A/H5N1 (Bird Flu) Virus Infections H5N1 Bird Flu Found in Polish Domestic Cats CDC and Representatives from Across Southeast Asia Meet in Bangkok for Workshop on Avian Influenza VIEW ALL Bird Flu H5N1 Bird Flu Found in Polish Domestic Cats SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone FEBRUARY 25, 2023 ESPAÑOL H5N1 Update: Two Human H5N1 Cases in Cambodia WHAT TO KNOW This CDC spotlight article was published on February 25, 2023.
Two human infections with avian influenza A H5N1 (H5N1 bird flu) virus were reported by Cambodia.
These H5 viruses belong to clade 2.3.2.1c, which have circulated in Cambodia among birds/poultry for many years and have resulted in rare, sporadic human infections in the past.
These viruses are different from the H5N1 viruses currently circulating in wild birds, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update February 25, 2023 — Two human infections with avian influenza A H5N1 (H5N1 bird flu) virus have been reported by Cambodia.
These cases are thought to be a result of exposure to infected birds/poultry.
An investigation to try to confirm the source of the infections and detect any potential additional cases is ongoing.
Based on preliminary genetic sequencing done in country, the Cambodian Ministry of Health has identified these viruses as being H5 clade 2.3.2.1c, which have circulated in Cambodia among birds/poultry for many years.
These viruses have resulted in rare sporadic human infections in the past, but these two cases are the first such infections reported in Cambodia since 2014.
The 2.3.2.1c viruses in Cambodia are different from H5N1 viruses currently circulating in wild birds and poultry in the United States and other countries, which are H5 clade 2.3.4.4b.
The cases in Cambodia occurred in a child, who died, and her father, who reported a fever and cough.
No additional H5N1 cases have been identified at this time.
To date, no indication of person-to-person spread has been found.
There is no indication at this time that these two human cases of H5N1 in Cambodia pose a threat to the U.S.
Risk and Prevention Measures in the U.S For the United States, the ongoing outbreaks of 2.3.4.4b clade H5N1 bird flu in wild birds and poultry with sporadic spillover events into some mammals remains mainly an agricultural issue.
The current risk to the general public from bird flu viruses remains low; however, it is important to remember that risk depends on exposure, and people with more exposure might have a greater risk of infection.
People who have job-related or recreational exposures to infected birds or sick or dead mammals are at higher risk of infection and should take appropriate prevention measures.
CDC also has guidance for clinicians on monitoring, testing, and antiviral treatment for patients with bird flu virus infections.
People should avoid contact with poultry, and wild birds and mammals that appear ill or are dead and avoid contact with surfaces that appear to be contaminated with feces from wild birds and mammals, or domestic poultry.
Observe wild birds and mammals only from a distance, if possible.
Wild birds and mammals can be infected with bird flu viruses without always appearing sick.
If you must handle wild birds and mammals or sick or dead poultry, minimize direct contact by wearing gloves and wash your hands with soap and water after touching them.
If available, wear respiratory protection such as a medical facemask and eye protection such as goggles.
poultry industry has strict health and safety standards, including regular monitoring for bird flu.
It is safe to eat properly handled and cooked poultry and poultry products in the U.S.
The proper handling and cooking of poultry and eggs to an internal temperature of 165˚F kills bacteria and viruses, including H5 viruses.
Department of Interior and USDA APHIS are the lead federal agencies for H5N1 in birds, poultry, and animals in the U.S.
They are respectively responsible for outbreak investigation and control of bird flu in wild birds and in domestic poultry.
CDC is the lead federal agency on the human health side.
CDC has been actively working on the domestic H5N1 situation since the initial detection of H5N1 in U.S.
wild birds and poultry in early 2022.
This includes preparing for the possibility that H5N1 viruses circulating in birds in the United States and in other countries gain the ability to easily infect and spread between people.
This includes ensuring that there are prevention and treatment tools, in addition to testing capacity.
CDC's existing influenza surveillance systems are well-equipped to rapidly detect cases of avian influenza A virus infection, including H5N1 virus, in people.
CDC's influenza virus tests, which can detect both seasonal and novel influenza A viruses, are used in all 50 U.S states and globally.
Additionally, there are CDC diagnostic tests that specifically detect the current H5 viruses, which are available in public health laboratories in all 50 U.S.
states and international laboratories.
An H5 candidate vaccine virus (CVV) produced by CDC is identical or nearly identical to the hemagglutinin (HA) protein of recently detected clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 viruses in birds and mammals (including a 2022 H5 outbreak in mink in Spain) and could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed, and which would provide good protection.
This H5 CVV is available and has been shared with vaccine manufacturers.
Because flu viruses are constantly changing, CDC continually analyses viruses to identify genetic changes that suggest these viruses might spread more easily to and between people, and cause serious illness in people, or for changes that suggest reduced susceptibility to antivirals, as well as changes in the virus that might mean a new vaccine virus should be developed.
CDC, along with state and local public health partners, also continues to actively monitor people who have been exposed to infected birds and poultry for 10 days after exposure.
To date, public health departments have monitored more than 6,300 people in more than 50 jurisdictions who were exposed to birds/poultry infected with H5N1 virus.
Of these, more than 160 people showed symptoms and subsequently were tested for novel influenza A and seasonal flu viruses along with other respiratory viruses.
H5N1 virus genetic material has been only detected in a respiratory specimen from one person in Colorado.
Additional information on protective actions around birds, including what to do if you find a dead bird, is available.
CDC also has guidance for specific groups of people with exposure to poultry, including poultry workers and people responding to poultry outbreaks.
CDC will continue to provide further updates to the situation and update guidance as needed.
Human infections with avian influenza viruses are rare but can happen following exposure to infected birds/poultry.
Even more rarely, some limited, non-sustained person-to-person spread has happened.
More information about avian influenza is available on the CDC website.
What CDC is Doing The Cambodian Ministry of Health and other global public health officials are leading the investigation into these two human cases with support from in-country CDC staff and a CDC rapid response team.
Investigation efforts include contact tracing, monitoring and/or testing of close contacts including health care workers who cared for the two patients, and testing of animals in the village.
CDC also is providing testing materials and reagents.
CDC will continue to work with the Cambodian Ministry of Health and will provide updates as needed.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Risk and Prevention Measures in the U.S What CDC is Doing RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Updated Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Avian Influenza A(H5N1) U.S.
Situation Update and CDC Activities Vietnam Reports First Human Infection with Avian Influenza H9N2 Virus Technical Update: Summary Analysis of Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses in Texas VIEW ALL Bird Flu Vietnam Reports First Human Infection with Avian Influenza H9N2 Virus SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All South America's 2023 Flu Vaccines Cut Risk of Flu Hospitalizations by About Half This Could Be Promising News for U.S.
Flu Vaccine This Season For Everyone SEPT.
8, 2023 AT A GLANCE This spotlight was originally published on September 8, 2023.
A study conducted by PAHO, CDC, and five South American countries found that people who had gotten a flu vaccine were half as likely to be hospitalized with flu during the 2023 Southern Hemisphere flu season.
Flu vaccines also provided significant protection to groups that are at higher risk of severe flu illness.
Flu vaccination reduced the risk of flu hospitalization among young children by 70% and among older adults by 38%.
CDC update September 8, 2023—A new study conducted by PAHO, CDC, and five South American countries found that people who had gotten a flu vaccine were half as likely to be hospitalized with flu during the 2023 Southern Hemisphere flu season.
2023–2024 flu vaccines have a similar vaccine virus composition as the 2023 Southern Hemisphere flu vaccines.
If the same viruses continue to circulate during the upcoming flu season in the United States, these preliminary data suggest U.S.
2023–2024 flu vaccines could provide similar benefit against serious flu disease.
Scientists collected preliminary flu vaccine effectiveness (VE) data from the REVELAC-i network from five South American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay) during March 27–July 9, 2023.
VE was estimated by flu virus subtype and by selected populations (young children, older adults, and people with underlying medical conditions).
Flu vaccines provided significant protection against the flu viruses that were circulating in South America during the 2023 Southern Hemisphere flu season.
Vaccines reduced flu hospitalizations against the predominant flu viruses, influenza A(H1N1), by 55% and against influenza B viruses by 46%.
There were too few influenza A(H3N2) virus infections among people enrolled in the study to produce a VE estimate against that subtype.
Flu vaccines also provided significant protection to groups that are at higher risk of severe flu illness.
Flu vaccination reduced the risk of flu hospitalization among young children by 70% and among older adults by 38%.
Most flu viruses identified in the U.S.
in recent weeks have been influenza A(H1N1) and influenza B viruses and the same as those identified in South America during their 2023 season.
If these same viruses continue to circulate in the Northern Hemisphere, U.S.
2023–2024 flu vaccines have the potential to provide similar protection during the upcoming U.S.
flu season since the composition of U.S.
2023–2024 influenza vaccines is similar to the 2023 Southern Hemisphere vaccines.
It is important to note; however, that flu activity is unpredictable and what happens in the Southern Hemisphere is not always predictive of what will happen in the Northern Hemisphere.
This study underscores the protective benefits provided by flu vaccination and provides insight into what we might expect in the Northern Hemisphere this upcoming flu season.
As we approach the 2023–2024 flu season in the United States, it is important to remember that CDC recommends everyone 6 months and older in the United States get a yearly flu vaccine with rare exception.
September and October are generally good times for most people to be vaccinated against flu.
This study was a collaboration between CDC and the WHO Pan American Health Organization.
RELATED PAGES What's New New CDC Study Looks at Flu Severity by Virus Type and Subtype New Wild to Mild Campaign Drives Key Message to Tame Flu and Reset Expectations Flu Vaccination Rates Lag Among Health Care Workers in Peru Influenza Activity in the United States during the 2023–24 Season and Composition of the 2024–25 Influenza Vaccine FluSurv-NET's 20th Anniversary VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Influenza Activity in the United States during the 2023–24 Season and Composition of the 2024–25 Influenza Vaccine SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 10, 2024 MAY 10, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW This CDC spotlight article provides a summary of CDC's H5N1 bird flu response activities as of May 10, 2024.
CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “A(H5N1) virus,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update May 10, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
USDA is now reporting that 42 dairy cattle herds in nine U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in cattle.
There have been no additional human cases detected since the one recent case from Texas was reported on April 1, A2024, despite the fact that more than 260 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals and at least 33 who have developed flu-like symptoms have been testedB.
CDC's response to this outbreak of influenza A(H5N1) virus in dairy cattle and other animals most recently includes: Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Testing of symptomatic people who have exposures is being done by state or local officials, and CDC is conducting confirmatory testing when needed.
Continuing discussions with multiple states about state-led field investigations to explore key scientific and public health questions related to the ongoing outbreak.
CDC is playing a coordinating role with regard to investigation protocols so that data collection can be standardized across states and results can be pooled.
CDC's multilingual and multidisciplinary epidemiological field teams are standing by, ready to deploy to support on-site studies if requested.
Working to make personal protective equipment (PPE) available for affected farmworkers by asking that jurisdictions use their existing stockpiles for workers on dairy farms, poultry farms, and in slaughterhouses, prioritizing distribution of PPE to affected farms.
If needed, HHS/ASPR has indicated it can provide PPE from the strategic national stockpile.
Continuing work to better characterize the virus from the human case in Texas.
This week, CDC researchers inoculated (infected) ferrets with the virus from the one human infection for its laboratory studies.
Ferrets are used as a model for people because they get sick and spread influenza viruses in a manner similar to people.
The goals of these animal studies, include: Assessing the severity of illness and transmissibility of the virus under different contact scenarios by infecting ferrets and assessing the outcome, including: via direct or close contact, with healthy and infected ferrets in the same space; and via respiratory droplets, with healthy and infected ferrets in side-by-side spaces separated by a wall with holes in it.
Results from the animal studies will be available in approximately three weeks.
Experimental infection of cell lines is forthcoming.
Continuing to engage with manufacturers of commercial diagnostic tests and clinical partners to make progress toward the goal of having an A(H5N1) test that is widely available if needed.
Continuing the process so that all states can conduct A(H5) testing on eye specimens using CDC's H5 test.
CDC submitted the official request package for this to FDA at the end of last week.
Use of eye swabs with the CDC H5 test when the testing is performed by CDC was approved by the CDC Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (CLIA) director on April 27th, which means results of testing of eye swabs at CDC can be reported back for patient care.
Some state public health laboratories have also taken the step to have eye swabs approved as a sample type for testing under their internal CLIA authorization.
Originally, the test was designed for use with respiratory specimens.
Once FDA authorizes the use of that specimen type with the test, all states will be able to do the testing themselves.
Continuing to engage One Health partner organizations from public health, agriculture, wildlife, milk regulatory officials, and others to share information and ensure preparedness to prevent and respond to this emerging infectious disease threat and for any potential human infections.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cattle or other animals, for any unusual trends in flu-like illness, flu, or conjunctivitis.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
CDC also has updated recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
Additionally, as a reminder, while CDC believes the current risk of A(H5N1) infection to the general public remains low, high levels of A(H5N1) virus have been found in unpasteurized ("raw") milk.
CDC and FDA recommend against the consumption of raw milk or raw milk products.
The risk of human infection from drinking raw milk containing live A(H5N1) virus specifically is unknown.
To date, A(H5N1) viruses have not acquired the ability to bind to virus receptors that are most prevalent in the upper respiratory tract of people.
If a person consumed raw milk with live A(H5N1) virus, the person could become infected, theoretically, by the virus binding to a limited amount of virus receptors in the upper respiratory tract or by aspiration of virus into the lower respiratory tract where receptors that A(H5N1) viruses can bind to are more widely distributed.
Ongoing Surveillance Needed Genetic analysis of the human A(H5N1) virus and hundreds of cattle viruses indicate these viruses are still mainly avian in nature and do not currently have the ability to easily infect or spread among people.
However, because of the potential for influenza viruses to constantly change, continual surveillance and preparedness efforts are critical, and CDC is taking measures to be ready in case the current risk assessment for the general public changes.
The immediate goal is to prevent further spread of this virus between animals and people.
CDC will continue to monitor these viruses and update and adjust guidance as needed.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update CDC Recommendations Ongoing Surveillance Needed SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MAY 16, 2023 ESPAÑOL CDC and Representatives from Across Southeast Asia Meet in Bangkok for Workshop on Avian Influenza HIGHLIGHTS This spotlight article was published on May 15, 2023.
That week CDC staff convened with leaders from animal and human health sectors across Southeast Asia to hone avian influenza (bird flu) preparedness best practices and to improve data-sharing in the region.
CDC Update This week, CDC staff will be convening with leaders from animal and human health sectors across Southeast Asia to hone avian influenza (bird flu) preparedness in the region.
The main purpose of this workshop is to share best practices in epidemiologic and laboratory surveillance for bird flu and to improve data-sharing to strengthen the region's ability to respond to bird flu pandemic threats.
This workshop takes place amid ongoing global outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza A H5 virus among wild birds and poultry, with sporadic spillover events in mammals and rare human infections.
The most prolific of these viruses are H5N1 viruses from clade 2.3.4.4b.
Since these began circulating globally in 2022, nine human infections have been reported, including two in China, and one in Vietnam.
Additionally, two human H5N1 infections were recently reported in Cambodia from clade 2.3.2.1c, a clade circulating in birds in the region, but human infections had not been reported in that country since 2014.
CDC has long supported avian influenza surveillance and prevention in Asia.
The first global detections of avian influenza A (H5N1) virus were reported in waterfowl in China in 1996.
The virus later began to circulate more widely in the region and caused widespread disease in waterfowl and several human infections and deaths.
These human infections and deaths raised concern that the virus could potentially continue to mutate and cause a global human pandemic.
As a result, in 2006, CDC increased financial support to countries and the number of flu experts across the globe, with particular focus in Southeast Asia.
CDC has continued to support flu surveillance in the region, providing financial and technical assistance, as well as maintaining regional hubs, including several in Asia.
In many countries in the region, particularly in rural areas, people often rely on poultry and other animals for food and income.
These animals typically live intermingled and in very close proximity to their human owners.
This proximity raises the possibility of influenza viruses spreading between animals and people, highlighting the importance of prioritizing bird flu surveillance and response in the region.
Workshop attendees will look to build on existing efforts to address the ongoing threat of H5 and set region-specific priorities.
Further, this workshop will help to elevate the importance of bird influenza preparedness activities among the countries involved by bringing awareness to bird flu and discussing actionable steps for key stakeholders in the region.
This workshop is organized by CDC and co-hosted by the Thailand Ministry of Public Health and will include representation from members of the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and the World Organisation for Animal Health (WOAH), as well as key decision makers from Ministries of Health and Ministries from animal and environmental health sectors from countries across Southeast Asia.
Human infections have been rare, however specific groups of people who are at higher risk due to their exposure to poultry, including poultry owners, poultry workers, people responding to poultry outbreaks, and those who handle or process chickens should take additional precautions around birds.
CDC will continue to provide updates to the current situation as needed.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Reports of Avian Influenza (AI) "Bird Flu" Outbreaks Increased Globally from 2013–2022 H5N1 Bird Flu Found in Polish Domestic Cats Human Infection with Avian Influenza A(H3N8) Virus Reported by China Chile Reports First Case of H5N1 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Human Infection with Avian Influenza A(H3N8) Virus Reported by China SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone APRIL 2, 2024 ESPAÑOL Technical Update: Summary Analysis of Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses in Texas WHAT TO KNOW This is a technical summary of an analysis of the genomic sequences of viruses associated with an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) viruses in Texas.
This analysis supports the conclusion that the overall risk to the general public associated with the ongoing HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak has not changed and remains low at this time.
CDC Update The genome of the virus identified from the patient in Texas is publicly posted in GISAID and has been submitted to GenBank .
The virus sequences are HA clade 2.3.4.4b HPAI A(H5N1) with each individual gene segment closely related to viruses detected in dairy cattle available from USDA testing in Texas.
While minor changes were identified in the virus sequence from the patient specimen compared to the viral sequences from cattle, both cattle and human sequences maintain primarily avian genetic characteristics and for the most part lack changes that would make them better adapted to infect mammals.
The genome for the human isolate had one change (PB2 E627K) that is known to be associated with viral adaptation to mammalian hosts, and which has been detected before in people and other mammals infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus and other avian influenza subtypes (e.g., H7N9), but with no evidence of onward spread among people.
Viruses can undergo changes in a host as they replicate after infection.
Further, there are no markers known to be associated with influenza antiviral resistance found in the virus sequences from the patient's specimen and the virus is very closely related to two existing HPAI A(H5N1) candidate vaccine viruses that are already available to manufacturers, and which could be used to make vaccine if needed.
Overall, the genetic analysis of HPAI A(H5N1) viruses in Texas supports CDC's conclusion that the human health risk currently remains low.
More details are available in this technical summary below: Technical Summary Viral RNA extractions obtained from nasopharyngeal swab and conjunctival swab specimens collected from the patient were used as template to perform next generation sequencing using Illumina and Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) platforms.
Codon complete consensus sequence was successfully generated only from the conjunctival specimen and was assembled using CDC's Iterative Refinement Meta Assembler (IRMA).
Illumina and ONT yielded identical sequences at the consensus sequence level.
In concordance with the rRT-PCR cycle threshold (Ct) values obtained from each specimen (i.e., approximately 18 for the conjunctival specimen and 33 for the nasopharyngeal sample), viral RNA from the nasopharyngeal sample failed to generate PCR amplicons suitable for sequencing.
Notably, the patient reported only conjunctivitis with no respiratory or other symptoms, which likely resulted in lower viral RNA concentrations detected in the nasopharyngeal sample and is suggestive of a lack of respiratory infection in the patient.
The virus sequence was confirmed to be HA clade 2.3.4.4b HPAI A(H5N1) with each individual gene segment determined to be closely related to viruses detected in dairy cattle in Texas.
The genotype was classified as B3.131 and corresponds to the same genotype described by USDA for the virus detected in Texas cattle2.
This genotype contains PA, HA, NA and M gene segments from Eurasian wild bird lineages and PB2, PB1, NP and NS gene segments from American wild bird lineages.
Other viruses with this genotype have been sporadically detected in wild birds, poultry and one skunk since November 2023 in the U.S.
CDC's real-time RT-PCR diagnostic test used for the detection of A(H5) virus in human samples has not been impacted by genetic changes in B3.13 genotype viruses.
The hemagglutinin (HA) gene codes for one of the two surface glycoproteins and is central to species specificity because it is responsible for virus attachment and fusion with host cells.
Like the viruses detected in cattle, the analysis of the HA gene from the human specimen shows that it is closely related to HPAI A(H5) viruses in HA clade 2.3.4.4b recently detected in wild birds and poultry and lacks amino acid changes that improve recognition of mammalian receptors or fusion of the viral membrane with the host endosomal membranes.
The HA is also the primary target of neutralizing antibodies elicited by infection or vaccination, and the HA of virus from the human specimen is very closely related to the A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like pre-pandemic candidate vaccine virus (CVV) (IDCDC-RG71A) and the A/American wigeon/South Carolina/22-000345-001/2021-like CVV (IDCDC-RG78A), both of which are available to vaccine manufacturers3.
There are only four amino acid changes (L104M, L115Q, T195I, V210A) between the HA1 of the virus from the Texas case and A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like CVV and only two changes (L115Q, T195I) compared to the A/American wigeon/South Carolina/22-000345-001/2021-like CVV.
The changes are not in major antigenic epitopes strongly suggesting that antibodies elicited by A/Astrakhan/3212/2020-like and A/American wigeon/South Carolina/22-000345-001/2021-like vaccines would be expected to have good cross-reactivity – and therefore protection – against this virus.
The neuraminidase (NA) gene encodes the other surface protein of the virus.
The major role of the NA is to release new progeny virions from an infected cell by enzymatically cleaving sialic acid receptors, which aids virus spread to uninfected cells within an infected host.
The enzymatic activity of NA is inhibited by one class of antiviral drugs that are FDA-approved for treatment of influenza (i.e., NA inhibitors).
Analysis of the N1 NA gene from the Texas human specimen showed that it did not have any known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to this class of antivirals, which includes oseltamivir.
Furthermore, the NA has a full-length stalk which is consistent with viruses that naturally circulate in wild birds.
In previous HPAI A(H5N1) virus outbreaks and zoonoses the NA stalk region often had deletions (e.g., a 20 amino acid deletion at positions 49–68 relative to A/goose/Guangdong/1/1996) that enhances replication and/or pathogenesis in terrestrial poultry and mice456.
Analysis of the other gene segments (PB2, PB1, PA, NP, M, NS) was also conducted.
No known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral compounds that target the PA (i.e., baloxavir marboxil) or M2 (i.e., amantadine, rimantadine) were found.
In addition to the HA and NA, the RNA transcription and replication complex (PB2, PB1, PA, NP) also have species-specific determinants that impact efficient replication in humans and other mammals, particularly polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2).
The PB1, PA and NP lacked markers of mammalian adaptation.
The PB2 of the human specimen had a change of PB2 E627K compared to the PB2 genes of viruses available from USDA detections in Texas dairy cattle and typically found in A(H5N1) viruses circulating in wild birds.
This mutation is, however, commonly found in humans and other mammals that are infected with HPAI A(H5N1) viruses and is understood to be associated with mammalian adaptation because it improves RNA polymerase activity and replication efficiency in mammalian cells; based on experimental studies in mice, guinea pigs and ferrets, it has the potential to impact pathogenesis or transmission in infected mammals78.
Despite previous identification of PB2 E627K in human cases of HPAI A(H5N1) virus, there is no evidence of onward transmission among humans after infection with viruses containing this mutation.
It is important to note that this substitution has not been seen in available PB2 genes from viruses circulating in wild birds and poultry or in the recently described cattle viruses detected in Texas, suggesting the mutation may have been acquired in the patient during the development of conjunctivitis.
Viruses can undergo changes in a host as they replicate after infection, and it is not uncommon or surprising for HPAI A(H5N1) viruses to undergo this and other polymerase gene changes in infected patients9.
Additional data from A(H5N1) virus-infected animals from the premises where the person was likely exposed is needed to support this hypothesis.
The protein products from the M (M1 and M2) and NS (N1 and N2) genes lacked markers associated with mammalian adaptation.
Collectively, epidemiologic, and viral genomic analyses indicate that this case represents a single zoonotic event and while the HA lacked changes likely to enhance transmission to mammals, it did acquire substitutions in PB2 likely to enhance replication in mammals, which illustrates that we have to remain vigilant and continue to characterize zoonotic viruses.
Overall, the genomic analysis of the virus from this human case does not change CDC's risk assessment related to the HPAI A(H5) clade 2.3.4.4b viruses.
The overall risk to human health associated with the ongoing HPAI A(H5) outbreaks in poultry and detections in wild birds and cattle remains low.
Note: HPAI A(H5) viruses, predominantly HPAI A(H5N1) clade 2.3.4.4b viruses, have been circulating globally in wild birds in the U.S.
since late 2021.
These viruses have caused outbreaks in commercial and backyard poultry, with spillover resulting in sporadic infections in mammals.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Technical Summary RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Avian Influenza A(H5N1) U.S.
Situation Update and CDC Activities H5N1 Update: Two Human H5N1 Cases in Cambodia Vietnam Reports First Human Infection with Avian Influenza H9N2 Virus CDC and Ohio Department of Health Conduct Influenza A(H5) Serosurvey at the American Association of Bovine Practitioners Annual Conference CDC Report on Missouri H5N1 Serology Testing VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC and Ohio Department of Health Conduct Influenza A(H5) Serosurvey at the American Association of Bovine Practitioners Annual Conference SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone OCTOBER 29, 2024 ESPAÑOL CDC Celebrates FluSurv-NET's 20th Anniversary WHAT TO KNOW CDC celebrated FluSurv-NET’s 20th anniversary, commemorating two decades of surveillance and rigorous scientific investigation of influenza-associated hospitalizations.
Background CDC celebrated FluSurv-NET's 20th anniversary, commemorating two decades of surveillance and rigorous scientific investigation of influenza-associated hospitalizations.
The Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET) is a vital source of detailed data on flu-related hospitalizations, including demographic and clinical characteristics, underlying medical conditions, and outcomes of people hospitalized with flu.
Because FluSurv-NET surveillance is population-based, the data are also used to calculate rates of flu hospitalizations (total number of flu hospitalizations/total number of people living within a specified geographic area) by age group, sex, and race and ethnicity.
The FluSurv-NET anniversary celebration marks an important milestone in recognizing the work of the surveillance network central to CDC's objective to evaluate and monitor influenza virus infections.
Respiratory viruses are among the most significant causes of mortality worldwide.
So far, during the 2023-2024 season, CDC estimates between 34 to 75 million flu illnesses, 15 to 33 million flu medical visits, 380,000 to 900,000 flu hospitalizations, and 17,000 to 100,000 flu deaths in the United States.
FluSurv-NET data provide key inputs into developing these burden estimates.
FluSurv-NET data have not only helped estimate and monitor the severity of flu seasons and pandemics, but it has done so quickly, in near real-time.
Before FluSurv-NET, data on flu were obtained through national hospital discharge data, but getting the information was slow and cumbersome.
Throughout its 20-year history, FluSurv-NET's data have provided critical information on the different segments of the U.S.
population impacted by flu.
The network has described characteristics of special populations hospitalized with flu and helped guide policy to inform recommendations for influenza treatment and vaccination.
In 2010, FluSurv-NET data influenced changes to policy, including the recommendation of flu vaccination for all persons six months and older.
Contributing to flu research through 60 high-impact publications and over 20 publications since 2020, FluSurv-NET was one of the first platforms to publish data showing that flu vaccination helps reduce serious flu illness in hospitalized people who had been vaccinated.
These data helped inform the creation of the 2023 Wild to Mild campaign, an educational campaign based on the premise that even if you get flu despite getting vaccinated, the vaccine can help make your illness milder.
FluSurv-NET’s Unique Role FluSurv-NET is an important CDC data source for describing and characterizing health disparities among racial and ethnic groups.
The network collects data to assess racial and ethnic disparities in population-based rates of influenza-associated hospitalizations, ICU admissions, and deaths.
FluSurv-NET has helped to show that people who are Hispanic, Black, American Indian, and Alaska Native have higher flu-related hospitalization rates than people who are White.
With funding exceeding $100 million over the past 20 years to create a robust population-based flu surveillance system, FluSurv-NET significantly contributed to U.S.
public health infrastructure and ensured meaningful improvements to flu research and Americans' lives.
The network provides influenza surveillance data, and users can analyze flu activity across different demographic groups and regions.
FluSurv-NET data have also been used to show how antiviral treatment reduces flu severity, including hospital length of stay and other severe outcomes.
The network's data contribute to a better understanding of influenza's impact on pregnant women, children, immunocompromised persons, and other special populations.
The origins of FluSurv-NET date back to the 2003-2004 flu season, when it was established within the Emerging Infections Program (EIP) within NCEZID.
It was created to track and respond to increasing flu-related pediatric deaths.
By the 2004-2005 season, the network had evolved to include all ages.
In 2010, following the 2009 influenza A H1N1 pandemic, and with a need to broaden the geographic distribution, additional sites were added through a partnership with CSTE; together, the EIP sites plus the CSTE-supported Influenza Hospital Surveillance Program (IHSP) sites collectively became known as FluSurv-NET.
During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, CDC leveraged FluSurv-NET to create COVID-NET, which monitored COVID-19-associated hospitalizations, making it one of the only systems gathering population-level data in near-real time during the pandemic.
The FluSurv-NET platform was also the model for establishing a respiratory syncytial virus hospitalization surveillance system (RSV-NET).
Together, FluSurv-NET, COVID-NET, and RSV-NET are collectively known as the Respiratory Virus Hospitalization Surveillance Network or RESP-NET.
As CDC celebrates FluSurv-NET's 20-year contributions to the field of influenza and its service to the U.S.
population, it also acknowledges the work of the FluSurv-NET team within the Influenza Division and the long-standing collaboration with EIP and CSTE as well as the invaluable contributions from the principal investigators, surveillance officers, and other staff members from the 14 states who participate in FluSurv-NET.
Thanks to FluSurv-NET—which covers more than 30 million people, an estimated 9 percent of the U.S.
population—CDC has a critical source of data with the adaptability needed to confront future pandemics.
ON THIS PAGE Background FluSurv-NET’s Unique Role RELATED PAGES What's New New CDC Study Looks at Flu Severity by Virus Type and Subtype New Wild to Mild Campaign Drives Key Message to Tame Flu and Reset Expectations Flu Vaccination Rates Lag Among Health Care Workers in Peru South America's 2023 Flu Vaccines Cut Risk of Flu Hospitalizations by About Half Influenza Activity in the United States during the 2023–24 Season and Composition of the 2024–25 Influenza Vaccine VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Flu & Pregnancy SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 17, 2024 For Everyone MAY 17, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Updates May 17, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
USDA is now reporting that 51 dairy cattle herds in nine U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in cattle.
There have been no additional human casesA detected since the one recent case from Texas was reported on April 1, 2024B.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this outbreak of influenza A(H5N1) virus in dairy cattle and other animals include: Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 300 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 37 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
All except the one case in Texas have tested negative.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing as needed.
Working on a plan for enhanced, nationwide summer monitoring to help ensure that even rare cases of A(H5N1) virus infection in the community would be detected.
This plan includes increasing the number of influenza virus specimens that are tested and then subtyped in public health laboratories, which can detect A(H5N1).
Nationally, since March 24, 2024, almost 11,000 specimens have been tested for influenza in public health laboratories as part of this surveillance stream.
While influenza testing typically declines over the summer, this approach would maintain an increased level of testing.
More information on this will be forthcoming.
Beginning the process of conducting a pandemic risk assessment on the virus from the human infection in Texas (A/Texas/37/2024) using the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT).
The IRAT is an evaluation tool developed by CDC and external flu experts that assesses the potential pandemic risk posed by novel influenza A viruses.
The IRAT uses 10 risk elements to measure the potential of an influenza virus to emerge to cause a pandemic as well as the potential public health impact that a pandemic caused by that virus would have.
An IRAT is a multi-step process that can take months to complete.
(More on IRAT below.) The current assessment of the risk level to the general public, which is based on available epidemiologic and laboratory data, remains low.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cattle or other animals, for any unusual trends including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
CDC posted influenza A wastewater surveillance data for this first time this week.
Wastewater surveillance complements other existing human flu surveillance systems to monitor trends in influenza viruses.
Current wastewater monitoring methods detect influenza A viruses but do not distinguish the subtype or source of the influenza A virus (whether it is from humans or animals).
Reported levels of influenza A virus from each site are compared against levels reported by the same site during the prior flu season.
When influenza A levels in wastewater are high (at the 80th percentile or higher), that triggers follow up by CDC, including outreach to the relevant jurisdiction to determine the source of the signal and intensive surveillance review.
The data are presented in the format of an interactive map and updated weekly.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
More on the CDC IRAT Process CDC's current public health risk assessment has been informed by initial epidemiology and supporting laboratory assessments and is outlined in an April 26, 2024, Technical Report.
As mentioned above, CDC is beginning the process of implementing a full influenza risk assessment on A/Texas/37/2024 using the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool.
The IRAT is an evaluation tool designed for use by public health professionals for pandemic preparedness purposes to help prioritize decision-making, including decisions related to the development of countermeasures.
It is a multi-step process that takes several months to complete and involves a panel of experts completing complex analysis and scoring.
The IRAT assesses potential pandemic risk based on two different questions related to "emergence" and "public health impact." "Emergence:" What is the risk that a virus not currently circulating in the human population has potential for sustained human-to-human transmission?
"Public health impact:" If the virus were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission, what is the risk for significant impact on public health?
Previously, CDC has used the IRAT to assess many novel influenza A viruses, including four different A(H5N1) viruses.
The most recent IRAT on A(H5N1) viruses was conducted on A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022, a contemporary A(H5N1) virus that caused an outbreak among mink at a mink farm in Spain during 2022.
While that assessment resulted in a slightly higher score in some risk elements compared with a previously assessed A(H5N1) virus isolated from an American wigeon duck in 2022, the mean-high and mean-low acceptable score ranges for these viruses overlapped, indicating that these viruses remained similar, and their overall risk scores remained "moderate." The average weighted risk score for the estimated potential "emergence" of the mink virus was 5.13, which is within the range of the moderate risk category (moderate scores range from 4.0 to 7.9).
The average weighted risk score for the mink virus to potentially "impact public health" was 6.24, which also is within the range of the moderate risk category.
The decision to conduct an IRAT on the A/Texas/37/2024 virus is based largely on the fact that the virus has emerged in a new host in the United States.
While CDC believes that the immediate threat to the public posed by this virus remains low, the outcome of the IRAT will address the potential risk that this virus will change to cause human-to-human spread as well as the potential public health impact if that were to happen.
Ongoing studies, including the ferret transmissibility and pathogenicity studies currently ongoing at CDC, will be used by experts to inform the IRAT.
It's important to gather as much information as possible on this virus.
In the meantime, preventing opportunities for this virus to spread and further evolve is imperative.
CDC Recommendations People should avoid close, long, or unprotected exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows).
People should also avoid unprotected exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw)" milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus.
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
CDC also has updated recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
Additionally, high levels of A(H5N1) virus have been found in unpasteurized milk from infected cows.
CDC and FDA recommend against the consumption of raw milk or raw milk products.
The risk of human infection from drinking raw milk containing live A(H5N1) virus specifically is unknown.
A(H5N1) virus binds to receptors that are primarily located in the lower respiratory tract of people.
To date, A(H5N1) viruses have not acquired the ability to bind to virus receptors that are most prevalent in the upper respiratory tract of people.
If a person consumed raw milk with live A(H5N1) virus, the person could become infected, theoretically, by the virus binding to a limited amount of virus receptors in the upper respiratory tract or by aspiration of virus into the lower respiratory tract where receptors that A(H5N1) viruses can bind to are more widely distributed.
There are unpublished anecdotal reports of raw duck blood consumption as a potential source of A(H5N1) virus infection in a small number of human cases in the past.
As a reminder, while the two U.S.
cases of A(H5N1) had relatively mild illness, globally, A(H5N1) virus infections in people have ranged in severity from mild to deadly, with about a 50% fatality rate.
CDC specifically recommends against consuming raw milk infected with A(H5N1) virus as a way to develop antibodies against A(H5N1) virus to protect against future disease.
Consumption of contaminated raw milk could be dangerous.
A recent report in Emerging Infectious Diseases documented the death of domestic cats that had been fed raw milk from sick cows.
The cats quickly developed neurologic signs and blindness and high levels of A(H5N1) virus were found in their brains.
Neurologic signs and high mortality are not uncommon among other mammals with A(H5N1) virus infection.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Updates More on the CDC IRAT Process CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Key Public Health Prevention Recommendations for HPAI A(H5N1) Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Human in Michigan CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 10, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 3, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 10, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MAY 24, 2024 ESPAÑOL Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Human in Michigan WHAT TO KNOW CDC has sequenced the influenza virus genome identified in a conjunctival specimen collected from the person in Michigan who was identified to be infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus and compared each gene segment with HPAI A(H5N1) sequences from cows, wild birds and poultry and the first human case in Texas.
Background This is a technical summary of an analysis of the genomic sequence of the virus identified in the Michigan case of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus infection.
This analysis supports the conclusion that the overall risk to the general public associated with the ongoing HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak has not changed and remains low at this time.
The genome of the virus identified from the patient in Michigan (A/Michigan/90/2024) is publicly posted in GISAID (EPI_ISL_19162802) and has been submitted to GenBank (PP839258-PP839265).
CDC Update May 24, 2024 – CDC has sequenced the influenza virus genome identified in a conjunctival specimen collected from the person in Michigan who was identified to be infected with HPAI A(H5N1) virus and compared each gene segment with HPAI A(H5N1) sequences from cows, wild birds and poultry and the first human case in Texas.
The virus HA was identified as clade 2.3.4.4b with each individual gene segment closely related to genotype B3.13 viruses detected in dairy cows available from USDA testing.
No amino acid changes were identified in the HA gene sequence from the Michigan patient specimen compared to the HA sequence from the case in Texas and only minor changes were identified when compared to sequences from cows.
These data indicate viruses detected in both cows and the two human cases maintain primarily avian genetic characteristics and lack changes that would make them better adapted to infect or transmit between humans.
The genome of the human virus from Michigan did not have the PB2 E627K change detected in the virus from the Texas case but had one notable change (PB2 M631L) compared to the Texas case that is known to be associated with viral adaptation to mammalian hosts, and which has been detected in 99% of dairy cow sequences but only sporadically in birdsA.
This change has been identified as resulting in enhancement of virus replication and disease severity in mice during studies with avian influenza A(H10N7) virusesB.
The remainder of the genome of A/Michigan/90/2024 was closely related to sequences detected in infected dairy cows and strongly suggests direct cow-to-human transmission.
Further, there are no markers known to be associated with influenza antiviral resistance found in the virus sequences from the Michigan specimen and the virus is very closely related to two existing HPAI A(H5N1) candidate vaccine viruses that are already available to manufacturers, and which could be used to make vaccine if needed.
Overall, the genetic analysis of the HPAI A(H5N1) virus detected in a human in Michigan supports CDC's conclusion that the human health risk currently remains low.
More details of this and other viruses characterized in association with the dairy cow outbreak are available in a previous technical summary.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 24, 2024 Key Public Health Prevention Recommendations for HPAI A(H5N1) CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 17, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 10, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 17, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MARCH 17, 2023 ESPAÑOL Chile Reports First Case of H5N1 WHAT TO KNOW This CDC spotlight article was published on March 30, 2023.
On March 29, 2023, the Ministry of Health in the South American nation of Chile reported that country’s first human case of infection with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus.
This was the second human case of H5N1 bird flu reported in South America.
CDC Update The Ministry of Health in the South American nation of Chile has reported that country's first case of human infection with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus.
This is the second human "H5N1 bird flu" virus infection reported in South America, the first was reported by Ecuador in December and was associated with exposure to backyard poultry.
In February of this year, neighboring Peru reported H5N1 virus infections in sea lions and pelicans after die-offs in those animals.
Globally, this is the 11th human case of H5N1 reported since January 2022.
The prior 10 H5N1 cases all had exposure to poultry.
The source of H5N1 virus infection for the patient in Chile is part of an ongoing investigation.
A respiratory specimen from the Chile case-patient is being sent to CDC for confirmation and additional testing.
In the U.S., one H5N1 case was reported in person who reported fatigue without any other symptoms after poultry culling activities.
As of March 10, 2023, H5N1 viruses (clade 2.3.4.4b) have been detected in wild birds or poultry in 16 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean as well as the United States and Canada, and in most of the rest of the world.
Detection of a human infection with H5N1 bird flu in another country in South America is not surprising.
As noted in a recent CDC H5N1 technical report: "because of ...the wide global prevalence of HPAI A(H5N1) viruses in wild birds and poultry outbreaks, continued sporadic human infections are anticipated." Further, the report notes that "To date, HPAI A(H5N1) viruses currently circulating in birds and poultry, with spillover to mammals, and those that have caused human infections do not have the ability to easily bind to receptors that predominate in the human upper respiratory tract.
Therefore, the current risk to the public from HPAI A(H5N1) viruses remains low.
However, continued comprehensive surveillance of these viruses in wild birds, poultry, mammals, and people worldwide, and frequent reassessments are critical to determine the public health risk, along with ongoing preparedness efforts." CDC is actively working on the H5 situation both internationally and domestically, including conducting surveillance in the U.S.
among people with relevant exposures and preparing for the possibility that H5N1 viruses gain the ability to more easily spread to and between people.
More information about H5 bird flu is available at H5N1 Bird Flu: Current Situation Summary.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC and Representatives from Across Southeast Asia Meet in Bangkok for Workshop on Avian Influenza Human Infection with Avian Influenza A(H3N8) Virus Reported by China Human and Animal Health Experts Meet in South America to Prepare for Bird Flu Update on H5N1 Bird Flu in Cambodia VIEW ALL Bird Flu Human and Animal Health Experts Meet in South America to Prepare for Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC Report on Missouri H5N1 Serology Testing For Everyone OCT.
24, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW This spotlight was posted on October 24, 2024.
Topline Summary of Findings In August 2024, healthcare providers in Missouri had a patient who had gastrointestinal symptoms with a history of chronic respiratory illness.
The person was hospitalized and tested for multiple respiratory pathogens, and was positive for influenza A.
They recovered from their illness and were discharged.
Follow-up surveillance testing was conducted at the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services Public Health Laboratory using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) that is part of routine national influenza surveillance.
Testing found that the patient tested presumptive positive for avian influenza A(H5) ("H5 bird flu").
There was no history of exposure to infected animals or humans.
The specimen was forwarded to CDC as part of routine protocol.
CDC confirmed the specimen as H5N1 bird flu and this was reported as a case on September 6, 2024.
Missouri state and local officials performed a lengthy retrospective investigation of everyone who came into close contact with the patient and identified seven people (6 health care workers and one family member) who had symptoms that warranted additional investigation given their potential exposure to this patient.
CDC, in support of this investigation, conducted a series of tests on blood specimens from 6 of these people – and the original patient – to help identify signs of previous infection or exposure to H5N1 well after full resolution of their symptoms.
This was not possible for the others, whose suggestive symptoms had completely resolved at the time of interview.
None of the results of this extensive testing and investigation support that human-to-human spread occurred.
The health care workers who were tested showed no signs of previous H5N1 infection.
They were all "sero-negative." This finding rules out person-to-person spread between the MO case patient and any of health care workers tested.
The Missouri case and a household contact both had some evidence – though inconsistent – which suggested exposure to – or a previous infection with – H5N1 using these serologic tests.
To date, human-to-human spread of H5 bird flu has not been identified in the United States.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5N1 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
Following these tests, CDC continues to assess that the risk that someone who has not had contact with an infected animal will become infected with H5N1 remains low.
Background on serological testing methodology: Serological testing for H5N1 was performed on single time point serum specimens taken from retrospectively identified, previously symptomatic, exposed people after enough time had passed to allow their immune system to create antibodies.
These tests assess whether the antibodies produced by patients or close contacts of the patient are able to neutralize or bind to the H5N1 virus.
If they are able to neutralize or bind to the virus, that suggests a previous infection or exposure to the virus.
The samples were collected by state and local officials from: One confirmed H5 case (reported on Sept 6, 2024) who tested positive for H5 by PCR through routine influenza surveillance; One household contact of that case who was not tested at the time because their symptoms had resolved; Five health care workers with possible work-related exposures to the case who had not been tested since their symptoms had resolved.
Note that there was also one additional previously identified health care worker with exposure to the confirmed H5 case.
This person was tested for influenza at the time and was found to be negative, so no serological testing was performed on this person.
Since such a low amount of virus was detected in the clinical specimen from the confirmed case in Missouri, a complete genomic sequence from the virus could not be recovered.
CDC was able to obtain some sequence data from what little virus was present in the clinical specimen.
This sequence data – publicly available as "A/Missouri/121/2024" – showed some changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) that might impact how the patient's immune system responded to the infection (antigenicity).
These antigenic changes meant that the antibodies that developed by a person's immune response after exposure to this virus might not bind to the H5N1 viruses isolated from other H5N1 cases used in CDC's H5 serology test.
To ensure accurate serology results, CDC experts developed two reverse genetics (RG) viruses with the same antigenic changes that were documented in the A/Missouri/121/2024 HA sequence.
The creation of those viruses took 3 weeks.
CDC then used those RG viruses to test the blood specimens from the seven people from MO to look for an immune response to that specific virus, which would suggest exposure/infection.
The human population has complex pre-existing immunity to influenza viruses.
In public health investigation of possible influenza infections, blood specimens taken at two different times are recommended for serological testing to assess for infection, one specimen collected within seven days of illness onset, and a second specimen collected after the patient has recovered at ≥ 21 days (ideally 21 to 28 days) after symptom onset.
The rise in antibodies measured between the two specimens provides definitive evidence of an immune response to infection.
In the Missouri investigation, only one specimen was available, which was collected weeks after the initial case was identified.
This added another layer of complexity for serologic analysis in this situation given the retrospective nature of this investigation.
Laboratory Methods: There is no commercially available H5N1 serology test since such testing does not currently have a clinical role in patient care.
CDC does flu serology testing mainly to inform public health investigations and policy.
Unlike clinically available serologies for other infections, non-clinical serologic testing for seasonal influenza viruses takes about a week.
Serologic testing for H5 takes even longer because of the need for biosafety level 3 enhanced (BSL-3E) handling.
Testing in this particular situation required additional steps to ensure valid results.
Testing was conducted against four different target viruses: the two RG viruses developed for this investigation (described above), the H5N1 virus isolated from the first human case during this outbreak (posted as "A/Texas/37/2024"), and a seasonal A(H1N1)pdm09 virus.
Both RG viruses developed by CDC were used in testing in order to provide additional assurance regarding the validity of the findings.
The following testing was conducted in multiple replicates: Microneutralization (MN) assay: The main serology test is called a microneutralization (MN) test.
This is a highly sensitive and specific test for identifying influenza virus-specific antibodies in blood sera.
The MN assay was performed to measure for neutralizing antibodies against the RG H5 viruses.
Hemagglutinin inhibition (HI) assay: The HI assay tests for antibodies to the hemagglutinin of the specific influenza virus using red blood cells (RBC).
Multiple types of RBCs were assessed in the HI assays to detect antibodies in the sera.
The Multiplex Antibody Detection Assay (MIADA): a test which looks for antibody binding to 28 different influenza antigen targets (28-plex), it also measures the total immunoglobulin (Ig), IgG, IgM and IgA antibody responses.
Seasonal Influenza Serum Absorption: an additional step that removes antibodies against seasonal influenza viruses that might be cross-reactive prior to testing against A(H5N1) viruses was also performed.
This step helps to rule out the possibility of cross-reactivity from prior exposure to seasonal influenza viruses (through infection or vaccination) which might generate a false positive H5N1 serology result.
Serologic Findings and Interpretation: CDC and historic WHO criteria for H5N1 seropositivity suggestive of infection requires two positive tests: a MN assay and either an HI or another immunologic assay, like MIADA (See End Note).
The 5 health care workers who had exposure to the MO case patient were all seronegative using the MN, HI, and MIADA assays.
This means they did not have any serologic evidence of past infection with H5N1 bird flu.
The Missouri case and their household contact had some evidence of a humoral immune response to H5N1 bird flu virus suggestive of possible infection, but it was not detected across assays.
The MN assay detected neutralizing antibodies against the RG viruses in the index patient and their household contact.
(Neutralizing antibodies are antibodies that defend a cell from a pathogen by disrupting its ability to infect a cell.) The HI assay was negative in both the case and their household .
In the MIADA assay, neither the MO case or their household contact were positive.
Conclusion of Missouri Investigation: The 5 health care workers were definitively seronegative against H5 in all assays, which means they were not infected with H5.
This finding rules out person-to-person spread between the index MO case patient and any of five health care workers.
Symptoms reported by these contacts were not caused by their exposure to this patient.
Testing results of the sera from the MO case patient and their household contact were similar: both showed evidence of an antibody immune response to H5 in only one assay (that detects H5 neutralizing antibodies), but not on the other serologic assays used to detect infection.
The weak immune signal suggests that it is possible that both of these people may have been exposed to H5 bird flu despite the fact that they did not meet accepted thresholds for seropositivity.
These similar immunologic results coupled with the epidemiologic data that these two individuals had identical symptom onset dates support a single common exposure to bird flu rather than person-to-person spread within the household.
Intensive epidemiologic investigation has not identified an exposure to an animal or animal product exposure to explain these possible infections, and these serologic data cannot further elucidate the exposure leading to these possible infections.
End Note: Historical World Health Organization serological case definition using single serum Single convalescent serum, collected at ≥ 21 days after symptom onset (or last exposure to infected animals/persons), with a microneutralization antibody titer ≥ 1:40 to an A(H5) virus, AND either 1) a positive result using a different serological assay (e.g., hemagglutination inhibition (HI) antibody titer≥40) or 2) an H5-specific positive result from another immunological assay such as ELISA or multiplex binding antibody assay.
ON THIS PAGE Topline Summary of Findings Background on serological testing methodology: Laboratory Methods: Serologic Findings and Interpretation: Conclusion of Missouri Investigation: RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Avian Influenza A(H5N1) U.S.
Situation Update and CDC Activities H5N1 Update: Two Human H5N1 Cases in Cambodia Vietnam Reports First Human Infection with Avian Influenza H9N2 Virus Technical Update: Summary Analysis of Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses in Texas CDC and Ohio Department of Health Conduct Influenza A(H5) Serosurvey at the American Association of Bovine Practitioners Annual Conference VIEW ALL Bird Flu Highlights in the History of Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Emerging Infections Program EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health Emerging Infections Program EIP Sites EIP Network Activities VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 29, 2024 EIP Network Activities AT A GLANCE Emerging Infections Program (EIP) network sites collect, monitor, and disseminate data related to foodborne illnesses, healthcare associated infections, respiratory viruses, and other emerging infectious diseases.
Overview Emerging Infections Program (EIP) activities focus on surveillance, applied research, and flexible and enhanced responses to emerging issues.
These efforts generate reliable incidence estimates and provide critical information on risk factors, spectrum of disease, and intervention impact.
ABCs Active Bacterial Core surveillance (ABCs) is a laboratory- and population-based surveillance system for five bacterial pathogens: group A Streptococcus group B Streptococcus Haemophilus influenzae Neisseria meningitidis Streptococcus pneumoniae ABCs provides estimates of invasive disease burden and trends for these pathogens.
ABCs also monitors changes in antimicrobial resistance and other characteristics through collection of bacterial isolates and demographic and clinical data.
View data from ABCs using Bact Facts Interactive.
COVID-NET The COVID-19 Associated Hospitalization Surveillance Network (COVID-NET) is a population-based surveillance platform for laboratory-confirmed COVID-19-associated hospitalizations among children and adults.
COVID-NET provides estimates of overall and age-specific COVID-19-associated hospitalization rates.
The platform also describes the characteristics, clinical features, and clinical course of people hospitalized with COVID-19 infection.
COVID-NET is one of three Respiratory Virus Hospitalization Surveillance Network (RESP-NET) surveillance platforms.
Data are displayed on the COVID-NET interactive dashboard and the RESP-NET interactive dashboard.
FoodNet The Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet) tracks trends for infections commonly transmitted through food.
FoodNet estimates the number of foodborne illnesses in the US, monitors trends in incidence of specific foodborne illnesses over time, attributes illnesses to specific foods and settings, and disseminates this information to improve public health practice and guide interventions to reduce the burden of foodborne illness.
Read publications using FoodNet data.
HAIC Healthcare Associated Infections - Community Interface (HAIC) surveillance activities and special projects seek to promote patient safety and healthcare quality through: evaluation of the epidemiology and public health impact of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), antimicrobial resistance (AR), and other healthcare-related adverse events, assessment of the effect of HAI and AR prevention and control strategies, development and exploration of innovations in healthcare safety surveillance methods, and identification of health disparities among persons affected by HAIs or AR and opportunities for interventions.
Read more about HAIC activities and explore HAIC data.
HPV-IMPACT The Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Impact Monitoring Project (HPV-IMPACT) provides surveillance for cervical lesions that could progress to invasive cervical cancer.
HPV-IMPACT data allow scientists to monitor the impact of the HPV vaccination program in the United States and evaluate vaccine effectiveness.
Read publications about HPV-IMPACT produced by members of the EIP Network.
FluSurv-NET The Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET) conducts surveillance for laboratory-confirmed influenza-associated hospitalizations in children and adults.
FluSurv-NET provides estimates of overall and age-specific influenza-associated hospitalization rates.
FluSurv-NET also describes the characteristics, clinical features, and clinical course of people hospitalized with influenza infection.
The platform contributes to the estimation of annual and weekly disease burden of influenza in the US.
FluSurv-NET data are updated weekly on FluView Interactive.
Read publications about FluSurv-NET produced by members of the EIP Network.
Mpox Vaccine Effectiveness Evaluation This multi-jurisdictional case-control study evaluated the effectiveness and durability of JYNNEOS ™ vaccine against mpox disease.
These data were critical to informing public health decision-making and vaccine policy for the control and prevention of mpox.
Read the most current mpox MMWR produced by members of the EIP Network.
Prion Prion surveillance monitors the continued absence of new forms of human prion disease and tracks trends in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
These activities inform prion disease-related public health policies.
Read publications about Prion surveillance produced by members of the EIP Network.
RSV-NET The Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Hospitalization Surveillance Network (RSV-NET) is a population-based surveillance platform for laboratory-confirmed RSV-associated hospitalizations.
RSV-NET estimates overall and age-specific RSV-associated hospitalization rates.
The platform also describes the characteristics, clinical features, and clinical course of people hospitalized with RSV infection.
RSV-NET is one of three Respiratory Virus Hospitalization Surveillance Network (RESP-NET) surveillance platforms.
RSV-NET data are displayed on the RSV-NET interactive dashboard and the RESP-NET interactive dashboard.
Read publications about RSV-NET produced by members of the EIP Network.
TickNET TickNET fosters collaboration between state health departments, academic centers, and CDC to prevent and enhance surveillance for tickborne diseases.
TickNET does this by conducting the following: queries of electronic health records and other data sources; knowledge, attitude, and practice surveys; high-quality prevention trials; and pathogen discovery studies.
Learn more about tickborne diseases.
ON THIS PAGE Overview ABCs COVID-NET FoodNet HAIC HPV-IMPACT FluSurv-NET Mpox Vaccine Effectiveness Evaluation Prion RSV-NET Show More SOURCES PRINT SHARE Emerging Infections Program EIP supports state-level efforts to track, prevent, and report on emerging infectious diseases.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update April 26, 2024 For Everyone APR.
26, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus" in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
CDC Update April 26, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus" in dairy cows and other animals in the U.S.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
USDA is now reporting that 34 dairy cattle herds in nine U.S.
states, including most recently Colorado, have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in cattle.
The agency has issued a "Federal Order requiring Testing for and Reporting of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) in Livestock ." Currently, one human case has been confirmed in a person with exposure to presumably infected dairy cows reported by Texas on April 1, 202412.
Monitoring people with exposure to animals infected or potentially infected with A(H5N1) viruses is important to help us better understand the risk to human health and potential for spread between animals and people.
CDC's response to this outbreak of influenza A(H5N1) virus in dairy cattle and other animals most recently includes: An updated H5N1 Technical Report posted on April 26.
This report updates a December 29, 2023, report to include seven new human cases of H5N1 reported globally since that time (five in Cambodia, one in the United States (Texas), and one in Vietnam) and recent activity in wild birds, poultry and other animals, including the multistate outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle and other animals, and updated information on monitoring for A(H5N1) virus infections in people in the United States.
The report concludes that the current risk to the general public remains low at this time.
Updated interim recommendations for worker protection expanded to include people who work in slaughterhouses posted on April 26.
Continuing work to better characterize the virus from the human case in Texas.
Testing for susceptibility to the commercially available and recommended flu antiviral medications was completed this week.
Testing confirmed that the A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas 2 is susceptible to baloxavir marboxil, in addition to the neuraminidase inhibitors, which was announced last week.
With these findings, the virus from the human case in Texas is confirmed to be susceptible to commercially available FDA-approved and recommended flu neuraminidase and polymerase acidic protein (PA) endonuclease inhibitor antiviral medications.
Currently the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir is recommended for antiviral treatment of people with confirmed or suspected A(H5N1) virus infection, and for post-exposure prophylaxis.
Looking at antiviral resistance properties of more than 200 H5N1 publicly posted virus sequences from cattle.
CDC found one virus from a cow with a marker known to be associated with reduced susceptibility to the neuraminidase inhibitors (a change at NA-T438I).
This change has been seen rarely in the past in H5N1 viruses isolated from wild birds and poultry.
The detection of this marker in one of more than 200 specimens is not surprising or concerning at this time in terms of the clinical usefulness of these drugs, but it does underscore why this kind of constant monitoring is important.
Growing H5N1 virus stock from the one human case in Texas to use for additional laboratory experiments to: Learn how the virus reproduces in both human and cow respiratory tract epithelial cells and cow mammary epithelial cells.
Assess the severity of illness and transmissibility of the virus under different scenarios by infecting ferrets and assessing the outcome.
Ferrets are used as a model for people because they get sick and spread influenza viruses in a manner similar to humans.
Testing human sera (blood) from people previously vaccinated with pre-pandemic A(H5) vaccines to see how it reacts to the virus from the human case in Texas.
Data to date – including genetic analysis and testing of ferret antisera from multiple clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses – suggest vaccination will offer good cross-protection against cattle outbreak viruses.
(The human case in Texas was a 2.3.4.4b virus.) Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected or potentially infected with influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Testing of symptomatic people who have exposures is being done by state or local officials, and CDC is conducting confirmatory testing when needed.
Maintaining multilingual and multidisciplinary epidemiological field teams ready to deploy for on-site studies to better understand the current outbreak, particularly the public health and One Health implications of the emergence of this virus in cattle.
Engaging One Health partner organizations from public health, agriculture, wildlife, milk regulatory officials, and others to share information and ensure preparedness to prevent and respond to this emerging infectious disease threat and for any potential human infections.
On April 25, CDC participated in an ASTHO-hosted discussion between public health leaders and scientists leading the U.S.
Government’s response to Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI).
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cattle or other animals, for any unusual trends in flu-like illness, flu, or conjunctivitis.
CDC this week posted a webpage on How CDC is monitoring influenza data in people to better understand the current avian influenza A (H5N1) situation.
CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) for the most recent week.
New Measures to Contain Spread in Cows The multistate outbreak of HPAI A(H5N1) bird flu in dairy cows was first reported by USDA on March 25, 2024.
This is the first time that A(H5N1) viruses have been found in cattle.
USDA also has reported that the virus has spread through cattle movement between herds and also from dairy cattle premises into nearby poultry premises and has infected a number of barn cats.
Additionally, USDA has reported that APHIS National Veterinary Services Laboratories found virus in a lung tissue sample from a dairy cow without symptoms that came from an affected herd (but that cow did not enter the food supply).
This week, USDA issued a "Federal Order Requiring Testing for and Reporting of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Livestock " to protect livestock health.
Prior to interstate movement, dairy cattle are now required to receive a negative test for influenza A virus at an approved National Animal Health Laboratory Network laboratory.
For more information regarding this Federal Order visit HPAI Detections in Livestock .
Containing spread of this virus in animals will help reduce the number of potential human exposures and thus help contain the public health risk.
Ongoing Surveillance Needed Because of the potential for influenza viruses to constantly change, continual surveillance and preparedness efforts are critical, and CDC is taking measures to be ready in case the current risk assessment for the general public changes.
The immediate goal is to prevent further spread of this virus between animals and people.
CDC will continue to monitor these viruses and update and adjust guidance as needed.
As a reminder, while CDC believes the current risk of A(H5N1) infection to the general public remains low, people with close, prolonged, or unprotected exposures to infected birds, cattle, or other animals, to unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or to environments contaminated by infected birds, cattle, or other animals or by raw milk, are at a greater risk of infection.
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
CDC also has updated recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE) to reduce their risk of exposure.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update New Measures to Contain Spread in Cows Ongoing Surveillance Needed RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Human and Animal Health Experts Meet in South America to Prepare for Bird Flu Update on H5N1 Bird Flu in Cambodia U.S.
Approaches Record Number of Avian Influenza Outbreaks in Wild Birds and Poultry U.S.
Case of Human Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Reported VIEW ALL Bird Flu U.S.
Approaches Record Number of Avian Influenza Outbreaks in Wild Birds and Poultry SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 24, 2024 For Everyone MAY 24, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “A(H5N1) virus,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update May 24, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
On May 22, CDC reported an additional human case of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection in a dairy worker in Michigan who had work exposure to infected cows.
By May 23, the agency had confirmed the neuraminidase of the virus as N1.
This is the second human case associated with the ongoing A(H5N1) outbreak in dairy cows, and the third case reported in the United StatesA.
Based on the information available so far, this infection does not change CDC's current human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public, which the agency considers to be lowA.
CDC continues to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who may be at higher risk for infection than others in the population.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 63 dairy cow herds in nine U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Also, this week, CDC was informed by FDA that it has authorized the use of the CDC H5-test for use with conjunctival (eye) specimens.
This means that public health labs can now conduct testing on eye specimens themselves initially instead of having to forward these to CDC.
Confirmation testing is still required at CDC.
Supporting Michigan as they follow up with their investigation.
Beginning work in the laboratory to characterize the virus from the human case from Michigan this week.
This includes: CDC has sequenced the influenza virus genome identified in a specimen collected from the person in Michigan.
A preliminary technical assessment of the genetic sequence is posted separately.
The genome will be publicly posted in GISAID and submitted to GenBank on May 24.
Attempting to recover the virus from the human case in Michigan.
Isolating or growing this virus in egg or cell cultures (known as "virus isolate") will allow for further virus characterization efforts including, assessing changes in antigenicity compared to vaccines, and learning about the severity and transmissibility of this virus.
If virus isolation is successful, experiments with a virus isolate will include conducting the following: assessment of vaccine elicited antibody cross-reactivity with the virus isolate, antiviral susceptibility testing to determine in vitro if the virus from the human case in Michigan is susceptible to flu antiviral medications that are used to treat flu, and animal and cell experiments to assess the transmissibility and pathogenicity of the virus.
More information and results will be shared when available.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 350 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 39 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing as needed.
Developed and posted new consumer and responder resources, including a summary fact sheet of CDC recommendations and resources and an information sheet for dairy farm workers, outlining how infections with A(H5N1) might happen and how to prevent them.
Spanish language and other translations are forthcoming.
CDC also posted two graphics showing how bird flu is spreading.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Also, this week, CDC was informed by FDA that it has authorized the use of the CDC H5-test for use with conjunctival (eye) specimens.
This means that public health labs can now conduct testing on eye specimens themselves initially instead of having to forward these to CDC.
Confirmation testing is still required at CDC.
Publication Highlights Also, of note this week: The World Health Organization published an antigenic characterization report of A(H5N1) viruses isolated from dairy cows and the first dairy farm worker in the United States, compared to clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs).
Based on current genetic, antigenic, and epidemiologic data, WHO found that no new CVVs were needed at this time.
A new CDC report published in JAMA on May 21, 2024, summarizes the results of a survey that found that nearly all U.S.
states and territories had taken measures to detect cases of A(H5N1) viruses in poultry, to monitor people exposed to infected poultry, and to test those exposed persons with flu-like symptoms, pointing to a preexisting level of public health preparedness for A(H5N1) viruses.
The survey, conducted in collaboration with the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), occurred before the A(H5N1) virus infections were detected in dairy cows in multiple U.S.
On May 24, 2024, CDC published a MMWR report describing the federal response to the multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) virus in dairy cows in the United States.
The report details response activities as well as related challenges.
The discussion section of the report summarizes some of the challenges Federal partners face in this response.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid close, long, or unprotected exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows).
People should also avoid unprotected exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Publication Highlights CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 Study Shows Novel Influenza Virus Infections in Humans in the United States Would Likely be Detected Through Existing Health Care Surveillance Key Public Health Prevention Recommendations for HPAI A(H5N1) Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Human in Michigan VIEW ALL Bird Flu Key Public Health Prevention Recommendations for HPAI A(H5N1) SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MARCH 3, 2023 ESPAÑOL Update on H5N1 Bird Flu in Cambodia WHAT TO KNOW This update provides results of a preliminary assessment of the H5N1 viruses identified in two human infections detected in Cambodia in 2023 based on their genetic sequences and gives an update on the epidemiological investigation.
CDC Update March 3, 2023—This update provides results of a preliminary assessment of the H5N1 viruses identified in two human infections detected in Cambodia in 2023 based on their genetic sequences and gives an update on the epidemiological investigation.
On February 26, 2023, the Institut Pasteur du Cambodge, in collaboration with the Cambodian Ministry of Health, shared the full genetic sequence of the H5N1 virus recovered from the patient who died in that country on February 22, 2023.
The genetic sequence of the second case was later also shared by the Institut Pasteur du Cambodge.
CDC has conducted a preliminary analysis of the genetic sequences of these H5N1 bird flu viruses.
They are H5N1 viruses from clade 2.3.2.1c, which are different from the H5N1 viruses now spreading in U.S.
wild birds and poultry, which are from clade 2.3.4.4b.
These viruses are similar to past 2.3.2.1c viruses detected in that geographic area over recent years.
The genetic sequences suggest that an existing clade 2.3.2.1c candidate vaccine virus (CVV), called NIBRG-301 (A/duck/Vietnam/NCVD-1584/2012-like) would offer protection against the viruses identified in Cambodia.
Additionally, there were no genetic changes identified that are known to be associated with increased ability to spread to people or reduce susceptibility to influenza antiviral drugs.
CDC has requested virus samples from both cases in Cambodia in order to conduct additional laboratory testing/analysis to confirm these and other characteristics of the viruses and to provide a more detailed risk assessment.
CDC continues to support the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, Animal, Forestry and Fisheries, and Ministry of Environment, in its ongoing One Health investigation.
Evidence to date continues to support the conclusion that these two human infections are the result of two instances of bird-to-human spread.
There is still no indication of person-to-person spread associated with these two cases.
The investigation has revealed that both patients became sick at about the same time and were likely exposed to sick or dead poultry prior to becoming ill, including being near sick/dead poultry kept in a coop under the house or through butchering, cleaning, and cooking chicken that died.
Investigation and containment efforts continue, including monitoring and/or testing of contacts of the two cases for 10 days after their last exposure, along with active surveillance for influenza-like-illness in the village.
CDC will provide additional updates as needed.
This is an update to a spotlight originally posted on February 25, 2023.
This spotlight was first posted on March 2 and subsequently updated on March 3 to provide information about the gene sequence from the virus isolated from the second patient in Cambodia and give appropriate credit for the gene sequencing work.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Chile Reports First Case of H5N1 Human and Animal Health Experts Meet in South America to Prepare for Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update April 26, 2024 U.S.
Approaches Record Number of Avian Influenza Outbreaks in Wild Birds and Poultry VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update April 26, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Highlights in the History of Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) For Everyone JUNE 1, 2024 KEY POINTS This page provides a brief background, timeline, and summary of significant past outbreaks of bird flu in wild birds, domestic poultry, and people.
Background The first description of avian influenza (bird flu) dates to 1878 in northern Italy, when it was described as a contagious disease of poultry associated with high mortality, referred to as "fowl plague." At the turn of the 20th century, it was determined that "fowl plague" was caused by a virus; however, it was not until 1955 that the virus was shown to be a type A influenza virus.
By 1980, researchers were using this system to classify influenza viruses regardless of the species of origin.
This naming tradition is still used today.
By 1981, the term "fowl plague" was substituted by the more appropriate term, avian influenza, at the First International Symposium on Avian Influenza.
Avian influenza A viruses are further classified into two categories: highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) and low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) A viruses based on specific criteria (viral characteristics and mortality in experimentally infected chickens1).
Most bird flu viruses are low pathogenic and cause few or no signs of disease in infected wild birds.
LPAI viruses also cause either no signs of disease or mild disease in chickens and other domestic poultry.
In contrast, HPAI viruses can cause severe disease and high mortality in infected poultry yet cause little to no disease signs in certain wild aquatic bird species.
While classification as an LPAI or HPAI virus refers to the severity of disease in infected poultry, both kinds of avian influenza A viruses have caused severe disease in infected humans.
Flu virus surface proteins (HA and NA) can change in two ways.
These changes are referred to as antigenic drift and shift.
Flu viruses change all the time due to antigenic drift, but antigenic shift happens less frequently.
More Flu virus surface proteins (HA and NA) can change in two ways.
These changes are referred to as antigenic drift and shift.
Flu viruses change all the time due to antigenic drift, but antigenic shift happens less frequently.
More SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Ticks EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention What to Do After a Tick Bite Tick Data Communication Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Tickborne Disease Continuing Education Tickborne Diseases of the United States VIEW ALL Related Topics: Vector-Borne Diseases View All MAY 15, 2024 About Ticks and Tickborne Disease KEY POINTS In the United States, ticks can spread bacteria, viruses, and parasites (pathogens) that cause human diseases.
Many tickborne diseases can have similar signs and symptoms.
Ticks transmit pathogens that cause disease through the process of feeding.
Diseases transmitted by ticks In the United States, some ticks carry pathogens that can cause human disease, including: Anaplasmosis Babesiosis Bourbon virus Colorado tick fever Ehrlichiosis Hard tick relapsing fever Heartland virus Lyme disease Powassan virus Rickettsia parkeri rickettsiosis Rocky Mountain spotted fever Soft tick relapsing fever STARI Tularemia 364D rickettsiosis Symptoms Many tickborne diseases can have similar signs and symptoms.
If you get a tick bite and develop the symptoms below within a few weeks, see your healthcare provider.
The most common symptoms of tick-related illnesses include: Fever/chills.
All tickborne diseases can cause fever.
Aches and pains.
Tickborne diseases can cause headache, fatigue, and muscle aches.
People with Lyme disease may also have joint pain.
Lyme disease, Southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI), Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), ehrlichiosis, and tularemia can cause distinctive rashes.
Your healthcare provider should evaluate the following before deciding on a plan for treatment: Your symptoms, the geographic region where you were bitten, and lab tests, depending on the symptoms and the geographic region where you were bitten.
Tick paralysis Tick paralysis is thought to be caused by a toxin in the saliva of an attached tick.
People with tick paralysis can experience weakness or paralysis that gradually moves up the body.
These symptoms can sometimes resemble other neurologic conditions (for example, Guillain-Barré syndrome or botulism).
Patients typically regain movement within 24 hours of removing the tick.
Learn more at Tick paralysis: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia .
How it spreads How ticks find their hosts Ticks find their hosts by detecting animals´ breath and body odors, or by sensing body heat, moisture, and vibrations.
Some species can even recognize a shadow.
In addition, ticks pick a place to wait by identifying well-used paths.
Then they wait for a host, resting on the tips of grasses and shrubs.
Ticks can't fly or jump, but many tick species wait in a position known as "questing".
While questing, ticks hold onto leaves and grass by their third and fourth pair of legs.
They hold the first pair of legs outstretched, waiting to climb on to the host.
When a host brushes the spot where a tick is waiting, it quickly climbs aboard.
Some ticks will attach quickly and others will wander, looking for places like the ear, or other areas where the skin is thinner.
How ticks spread disease Ticks transmit pathogens that cause disease through the process of feeding.
Depending on the tick species and its stage of life, preparing to feed can take from 10 minutes to 2 hours.
When the tick finds a feeding spot, it grasps the skin and cuts into the surface.
The tick then inserts its feeding tube.
Many species also secrete a cement-like substance that keeps them firmly attached during the meal.
The feeding tube can have barbs which help keep the tick in place.
Ticks also can secrete small amounts of saliva with anesthetic properties so that the animal or person can't feel that the tick has attached itself.
If the tick is in a sheltered spot, it can go unnoticed.
Ticks suck blood anywhere from minutes to days, depending on the tick species.
If the host animal has a bloodborne infection, the tick will ingest the pathogens with the blood.
Small amounts of saliva from the tick may also enter the skin of the host animal during the feeding process.
If the tick contains a pathogen, the organism may be transmitted to the host animal in this way.
After feeding, most ticks will drop off and prepare for the next life stage.
At its next feeding, it can then transmit an acquired disease to the new host.
ON THIS PAGE Diseases transmitted by ticks Symptoms How it spreads SOURCES PRINT SHARE Ticks In the United States, ticks can spread germs that make people sick.
Learn where ticks live, how to prevent tick bites, and what to do after a tick bite.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone MAY 5, 2022 ESPAÑOL U.S.
Case of Human Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Reported WHAT TO KNOW May 5, 2022 – CDC has confirmed the influenza neuraminidase N1 subtype of the U.S.
case of human avian influenza A(H5) reported last week by genetic sequencing.
CDC Update May 5, 2022 – CDC has confirmed the influenza neuraminidase N1 subtype of the U.S.
case of human avian influenza A(H5) reported last week by genetic sequencing.
Genetic characterization is ongoing and final data will be made publicly available in GenBank as soon as available.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update April 26, 2024 U.S.
Approaches Record Number of Avian Influenza Outbreaks in Wild Birds and Poultry Recent Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Pose a Low Risk to the Public Updated: H5N1 Bird Flu Virus in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Poses a Low Risk to the Public VIEW ALL Bird Flu Recent Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Pose a Low Risk to the Public SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All MAY 29, 2024 ESPAÑOL Study Shows Novel Influenza Virus Infections in Humans in the United States Would Likely be Detected Through Existing Health Care Surveillance WHAT TO KNOW A new CDC modeling study suggests that influenza testing in health care settings in the United States can serve as an effective warning system in the event of an outbreak of a novel (non-human) influenza virus with pandemic potential.
CDC Update May 29, 2024 – A new CDC modeling study suggests that influenza testing in health care settings in the United States can serve as an effective warning system in the event of an outbreak of a novel (non-human) influenza virus with pandemic potential.
The study, published May 26 in the journal Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses, reports that existing flu surveillance in health care settings in the United States would likely detect at least one case of novel influenza virus infection in people, even when the virus has yet to spread widely.
The likelihood of detecting at least one case, which would prompt a public health response, increased with severity of illness.
The findings are relevant in light of the current outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) ("A(H5N1) virus") in U.S.
dairy cows, which has resulted in two recently reported cases of human infection in dairy farm workers.
AThey also underscore the critical role health care providers play as a first line of defense by maintaining the rates of testing for influenza performed during the influenza season and forwarding clinical specimens to public health laboratories for further testing as recommended.
The study estimated the probability that at least one human infection with a novel influenza virus would be detected in three different health care settings, each reflecting different care-seeking behaviors and testing practices.
Those include: outpatient urgent care and emergency departments (UC/ED); inpatient hospital settings; and intensive care units (ICU).
In each setting, the researchers used a modeling framework informed by data collected from existing influenza surveillance platforms to estimate the likelihood of detection of novel influenza virus infections in a variety of scenarios.
Each scenario accounted for different rates of new cases (incidence); degrees of symptom severity, including the absence of symptoms; rates of testing for influenza virus infection; and percentages of clinical specimens forwarded to a public health laboratory for further testing.
In a baseline scenario that assumed the presence of 100 cases in the population, with symptom severity similar to that of infection with a seasonal influenza virus, the likelihood of detecting at least one case of novel influenza virus infection per month was highest in community and UC/ED settings at 77% and 72%, respectively.
That's compared to less than 15% in hospital and ICU settings.
As the assumed severity of illness caused by the novel influenza virus increased, the probability of detection also increased across all settings due to the greater probability that an infected person would require medical attention.
Assuming severity equal to that observed with A(H5N1) cases worldwide (about 50% case-fatality proportion), the researchers found that the probability of detecting at least one case was close to 90% in UC/ED settings and 100% in hospital and ICU settings.
In addition to severity, the probability of detection was greatly influenced by assumptions about the proportion of clinical specimens forwarded to public health laboratories.
Since most commercial assays used to test for human influenza viruses cannot distinguish novel influenza A viruses from seasonal influenza A viruses, further testing at a public health laboratory is required for a positive specimen to be identified as a novel virus.
But that doesn't always happen, and the study's baseline scenario reflected that reality with the assumption (based on real-world data) that 50% of positive specimens were forwarded on for further testing.
Increasing that percentage to 75% or 100%, the study found, substantially increased detection probabilities across all health care settings.
Greater detection probability was also associated with higher rates of testing in each health care setting.
While seasonal flu activity is low in most of the country, ongoing A(H5N1) outbreaks in dairy cows and poultry continue to pose a challenge, and health care providers should continue to test for influenza whenever influenza virus infection is suspected.
The percent of total novel influenza cases detected in any health care setting was relatively low.
However, even when the prevalence of novel virus cases was low, the probability of detecting at least one case was generally high.
That's important because one case would trigger the implementation of public health measures aimed at identifying and preventing additional cases, which can include increased testing and further virus characterization, as is happening in states currently experiencing outbreaks in dairy cows or poultry flocks.
These findings are informing enhanced testing strategies amid the ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) virus in dairy cows and other animals in the United States to ensure that even rare cases of novel influenza viruses can be detected.
Additionally, CDC is supporting states that are monitoring people with exposure to animals infected or potentially infected with A(H5N1) viruses.
Monitoring people with relevant exposure history is important to helping CDC better understand the risk to human health and potential for spread between animals and people and from person to person.
CDC considers the human health risk to the U.S.
public from HPAI A(H5N1) viruses to be low at this time; however, people with close, prolonged, or unprotected exposures to infected birds, cows, or other animals, to unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or to environments contaminated by infected birds, cows, or other animals, or by raw milk, are at a greater risk of infection.
It's important to note that because influenza viruses constantly evolve, CDC's risk assessment for the general public could quickly change.
Continual surveillance is critical to ensuring public health preparedness and readiness to respond.
While these findings indicate that existing flu surveillance systems are likely to detect at least one novel influenza case before the virus has spread widely, CDC is asking that health care providers remain vigilant for signs and symptoms of influenza virus infection over the summer and maintain high rates of testing.
They should also forward influenza A virus-positive specimens to public health laboratories when recommended, such as when specimens are unsubtypeable or were collected from hospitalized patients with influenza-like illness.
Specimens that are unsubtypeable or that test presumptive positive for novel influenza A virus at the state public health laboratory should be sent immediately to CDC for further testing.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 For Everyone MAY 31, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “A(H5N1) virus,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 - CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
On May 30, 2024, CDC reported that an additional human case of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) virus infection was identified in Michigan.
This is the third human case associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
A As with the previous two cases (one in Texas, one in Michigan), the person is a dairy farm worker who had exposure to sick cows, making this another instance of likely cow-to-person spread.
Based on the information available at this time, this case does not change CDC's current A(H5N1) bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public because all three sporadic cases had direct contact with infected cows.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 68 dairy cow herds in nine U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Continuing work in the laboratory to characterize the virus from the second human case from Michigan.
This includes: Conducting additional sequence analysis.
Genetic sequence data from the most recent Michigan specimen confirmed this is a highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus belonging to clade 2.3.4.4b.
If more complete sequence data can be generated, it will be compared to previous human cases and dairy cows.
Attempting to isolate the virus in the specimen from the most recent Michigan case.
Providing technical assistance to Michigan Department of Health and Human Services as the department plans to launch a serology epidemiology study of people exposed to sick cows.
Posting a surveillance strategy for enhanced, nationwide summer monitoring to help ensure that even rare cases of A(H5N1) virus infection in the community are detected.
This plan includes: Increasing the number of influenza virus specimens that are tested and then subtyped in public health laboratories, which can detect A(H5).
While influenza testing typically declines over the summer, this approach would maintain an increased level of testing.
Specifically, jurisdictions were asked to work with clinical laboratories to increase submissions of positive influenza virus samples to public health laboratories for subtyping.
CDC is also working with commercial laboratories to increase submission of influenza-positive test specimens to public health laboratories with the aim of increasing the number of specimens available for virus subtyping.
Continuing surveillance for laboratory-confirmed, flu-related hospitalizations during the spring and summer through the Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET), which typically pauses surveillance activities from May through September.
CDC also is working with state and local public health partners to increase outreach to health care providers and clinics to raise awareness about A(H5N1), so that novel flu is considered in patients with conjunctivitis or respiratory illness after relevant exposures.
Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who may be at higher risk for infection than others in the population.
This week, CDC launched targeted social media outreach to farm workers in affected communities to raise awareness about the potential risk of working with infected or potentially infected animals, including dairy cows, and measures they should take to reduce their risk or if they develop symptoms after exposure.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 390 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 44 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing as needed.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlights Also, of note this week: A new CDC report, published on May 26, 2024 in the journal Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses, reports that existing flu surveillance in health care settings in the United States would likely detect at least one case of novel influenza virus infection in people, even when the virus has yet to spread widely.
This study underscores the critical role health care providers play as a first line of defense by maintaining the rates of testing for flu performed during the flu season and forwarding clinical specimens to public health laboratories for further testing as recommended.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update Publication Highlights CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results Study Shows Novel Influenza Virus Infections in Humans in the United States Would Likely be Detected Through Existing Health Care Surveillance CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 24, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Study Shows Novel Influenza Virus Infections in Humans in the United States Would Likely be Detected Through Existing Health Care Surveillance SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Ticks EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention What to Do After a Tick Bite Tick Data Communication Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Tickborne Disease Continuing Education Tickborne Diseases of the United States VIEW ALL Related Topics: Vector-Borne Diseases View All Where Ticks Live For Everyone JULY 30, 2025 KEY POINTS Of the many different tick species found throughout the world, only a select few bite and transmit bacteria, viruses, and parasites (pathogens) that cause diseases in people.
The below maps show the general distribution of ticks that transmit diseases to humans in the contiguous United States.
Tick surveillance information Even though a specific tick species is found in a region of the United States, it does not necessarily mean it transmits a specific disease in that area.
Disease transmission is influenced by multiple factors beyond mere tick presence.
For detailed information about ticks in your county, visit the interactive Tick Surveillance maps.
*Populations of ticks may be found outside shaded areas.
Naturally occurring populations of the ticks described below do not occur in Alaska; however, the brown dog tick occurs in Hawaii.
American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis, D.
similis) View LargerDownload Dermacentor variabilis (American Dog tick).
Where found: D.
variabilis is widely distributed east of the Rocky Mountains.
Also occurs in limited areas west of the Rocky Mountains.
Newly described D.
similis is found west of the Rocky Mountains.
More research is needed to understand the role of these species in disease transmission.
See a map that shows where American dog ticks live by county in the United States.
Transmits: Tularemia and Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
Comments: The highest risk of being bitten occurs during spring and summer.
Adult females are most likely to bite humans.
View Larger Approximate distribution of the American dog tick (D.
varaiabilis) in the United States.
View Larger Approximate distribution of D.
similis in the United States.
About this map.A Asian longhorned tick (Haemaphysalis longicornis) View LargerDownload Haemaphysalis longicornis (Asian longhorned tick).
See image guidance Where found: As of April 12, 2024, longhorned ticks have been found in Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia.
Not normally found in the Western Hemisphere, these ticks were reported for the first time in the United States in 2017.
The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) maintains a map of where longhorned ticks have been found in the U.S.
Transmits: Compared with well-known native ticks (such as the blacklegged tick, lone star tick and American dog tick), the Asian longhorned tick appears to be less attracted to humans.
In other countries, pathogens spread via bites from these ticks can make people and animals seriously ill.
With ongoing testing of ticks collected in the United States, it is likely that some ticks will be found to contain pathogens that can be harmful to people.
However, we do not yet know if and how often these ticks are able to pass these pathogens along to people and make them ill.
One recent experimental study found that this tick is not likely to contribute to the spread of Lyme disease bacteria in the United States.
Another laboratory study found that this tick has the ability to carry and spread the bacteria that causes Rocky Mountain spotted fever (Rickettsia rickettsii).
The bacteria that cause Rocky Mountain spotted fever have not yet been found in these ticks in nature.
Research is ongoing.
Comments: Asian longhorned ticks have been found on pets, livestock, wildlife, and people.
The female ticks can lay eggs and reproduce without mating.
Thousands of ticks may be found at a time in grass or shrubs or on an animal.
Blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) View LargerDownload Ixodes scapularis (blacklegged tick).
Where found: Widely distributed across the eastern United States.
See a map that shows where blacklegged ticks live by county in the United States.
Transmits: Anaplasma phagocytophilum (anaplasmosis), Babesia microti (babesiosis), Borrelia burgdorferi and B.
mayonii (which cause Lyme disease), B.
miyamotoi (hard tick relapsing fever), Ehrlichia muris eauclairensis (ehrlichiosis), and Powassan virus (Powassan virus disease).
Comments: The greatest risk of being bitten exists in the spring, summer, and fall.
However, adults may be out searching for a host any time winter temperatures are above freezing.
Stages most likely to bite humans are nymphs and adult females.
View Larger Approximate distribution of the blacklegged tick in the United States.
About this map.B Brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) View LargerDownload Rhipicephalus sanguineus (brown dog tick).
Where found: Worldwide.
Transmits: Rocky Mountain spotted fever (in the southwestern U.S.
and along the U.S.-Mexico border).
Comments: Dogs are the primary host for the brown dog tick in each of its life stages, but the tick may also bite humans or other mammals.
View Larger Approximate distribution of the brown dog tick in the United States.
About this map.A Gulf Coast tick (Amblyomma maculatum) View LargerDownload Amblyomma maculatum (Gulf Coast tick).
Where found: Primarily in the southeastern United States, with focal populations in the northeastern, midwestern, and southwestern United Sates.
Transmits: Rickettsia parkeri rickettsiosis, a form of spotted fever.
Comments: Adult ticks have been associated with transmission of R.
parkeri to humans.
View Larger Approximate distribution of Gulf Coast tick.
About this map.A Lone star tick (Amblyomma americanum) View LargerDownload Amblyomma americanum (Lone star tick).
Where found: Widely distributed in the Northeast, South, and Midwest of the United States.
See a map that shows where lone star ticks live by county in the United States.
Transmits: Bourbon virus, Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Ehrlichia ewingii (which cause human ehrlichiosis), Heartland virus, and tularemia.
A circular rash of unknown cause (STARI) sometimes follows the bite of the lone star tick, and growing evidence suggests that alpha-gal syndrome (red meat allergy) may be triggered by the bite of lone star ticks.
Comments: A very aggressive tick that bites humans.
The adult female is distinguished by a white dot or "lone star" on her back.
Lone star tick saliva can be irritating; redness and discomfort at a bite site does not necessarily indicate an infection.
The nymph and adult females most frequently bite humans and transmit disease.
View Larger Estimated distribution of the lone star tick in the United States.
Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni) View LargerDownload Dermacentor andersoni (Rocky Mountain wood tick).
Where found: Rocky Mountain states and southwestern Canada from elevations of 4,000 to 10,500 feet.
Transmits: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Colorado tick fever, and tularemia.
Comments: Adult ticks are primarily associated with pathogen transmission to humans.
View Larger Approximate distribution of the Rocky Mountain wood tick in the United States.
About this map.A Western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus) View LargerDownload Ixodes pacificus (Western blacklegged tick).
Where found: Along the Pacific coast of the United States, particularly northern California.A See a map that shows where western blacklegged ticks live by county in the United States.
Transmits: Anaplasma phagocytophilum (anaplasmosis), Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease), and B.
miyamotoi (hard tick relapsing fever).
Comments: Although all life stages bite humans, nymphs and adult females are more often reported on humans.
View Larger Approximate distribution of the Western blacklegged tick in the United States.
About this map.A ON THIS PAGE Tick surveillance information American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis, D.
similis) Asian longhorned tick (Haemaphysalis longicornis) Blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) Brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) Gulf Coast tick (Amblyomma maculatum) Lone star tick (Amblyomma americanum) Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni) Western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus) RELATED PAGES About Tick Lifecycles Prevention What to Do After a Tick Bite Tick Data VIEW ALL Ticks Prevention SOURCES PRINT SHARE Ticks In the United States, ticks can spread germs that make people sick.
Learn where ticks live, how to prevent tick bites, and what to do after a tick bite.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone FEBRUARY 22, 2022 ESPAÑOL Updated: H5N1 Bird Flu Virus in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Poses a Low Risk to the Public WHAT TO KNOW Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in U.S.
wild birds and commercial and domestic poultry.
CDC believes that the current risk to the general public's health from HPAI A(H5N1) virus in the U.S.
However, some people may be at a higher risk of infection than others based on their exposures to infected birds, particularly poultry workers.
CDC Update February 22, 2022—Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in U.S.
wild birds and commercial and domestic poultry, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspective Service (APHIS).
Avian influenza is a disease of birds caused by infection with avian influenza A viruses (bird flu viruses).
However, avian influenza A virus infection of people is rare.
CDC believes that the current risk to the general public's health from HPAI A(H5N1) virus in the U.S.
However, some people may be at a higher risk of infection than others based on their exposures to infected birds, particularly poultry workers.
While these bird flu outbreaks are largely an animal health issue, CDC is working closely with USDA to monitor for potential human infections and taking other routine preparedness and prevention measures in anticipation of possible human infections.
On the animal health side, the U.S.
Department of Interior and USDA are the lead federal departments for outbreak investigation and control of bird flu in wild birds, and USDA APHIS is the lead agency for such activities in domestic birds.
As a reminder, it is safe to eat properly handled and cooked poultry and poultry products in the United States.
The proper handling and cooking of poultry and eggs to an internal temperature of 165˚F kills bacteria and viruses, including HPAI A(H5N1) viruses.
Wild birds can be infected with HPAI A(H5N1) viruses without showing symptoms, but these viruses can cause illness and death in domestic poultry.
USDA has publicly posted genetic sequencing for several of the recently detected U.S.
HPAI A(H5N1) viruses.
These viruses are from clade 2.3.4.4b1, which is the predominant HPAI A(H5N1) virus worldwide at this time.
Ancestors of these HPAI A(H5N1) viruses first emerged in southern China and led to large poultry outbreaks in Hong Kong in 1997, which resulted in 18 human infections.
The outbreak was controlled, but the HPAI A(H5N1) virus re-surfaced in 2003 to spread widely in birds throughout Asia, and later in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East.
Human Infections with Avian Influenza A viruses Infected birds shed avian influenza A viruses in their saliva, mucous and feces.
Human infections with bird flu viruses can happen when enough virus gets into a person's eyes, nose, or mouth, or is inhaled.
People with close or prolonged unprotected contact with infected birds or virus contaminated environments may be at greater risk of bird flu virus infection.
Illnesses in humans from avian influenza A virus infections have ranged from mild (e.g., eye infection, upper respiratory symptoms) to severe illness (e.g., pneumonia) that can result in death.
The spread of avian influenza A viruses from one infected person to a close contact is very rare, and when it has happened, it has not led to sustained spread among people.
Since 2003, 19 countries have reported more than 860 total human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) viruses to the World Health Organization (WHO), with about 53 percent of those resulting in death.
The most recent human infection with HPAI A(H5N1) virus was reported in the United Kingdom in January 2022 in association with exposure to domestically kept infected birds.
No human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses2 have been detected to date in the United States; however, sporadic human infections with HPAI A(H5N1) bird flu viruses resulting from close contact with infected birds/poultry would not be surprising given past human infections that have occurred sporadically in other countries.
CDC will work with state partners to minimize the possibility of human infection and, if one occurs, minimize the risk to others.
What is CDC Doing?
Based on available gene sequencing, CDC has determined: CDC has produced a candidate vaccine virus (CVV) that is nearly identical to the recently detected HPAI A(H5N1) viruses in birds that could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed.
These viruses are susceptible to currently available antiviral medications used to treat influenza.
These viruses can be detected using CDC's diagnostic tools for seasonal influenza viruses which are used at more than 100 public health laboratories in all 50 U.S.
states and internationally as well.
CDC is working with USDA and state public health partners to monitor for potential infections in exposed persons in the states where H5N1 bird flu virus detections in poultry and backyard flocks have occurred.
If human infections with H5N1 bird flu virus are identified, CDC will assist with surveillance, contact tracing, and steps to reduce further spread, in the affected jurisdictions.
CDC will also alert clinicians and other health professionals through clinician outreach networks.
CDC has guidance documents including recommendations for personal protective equipment and information for people exposed to birds infected with avian influenza A viruses and guidance for testing and treatment of suspected cases to prevent severe illness and transmission to other people.
CDC is currently reviewing and updating this guidance as needed.
Risk Assessment Ongoing CDC will continue its ongoing assessment of the risk posed by these viruses, including conducting laboratory experiments to further characterize the HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
For example, continuing to look for genetic markers that might result in greater transmissibility to and between people or suggest reduced susceptibility to antivirals, as well as changes in the virus that might require the development of a new CVV.
While sporadic bird-to-human infections would not raise the public health risk assessment, identification of multiple instances of HPAI A(H5N1) virus spread from birds to people, or of markers of mammalian adaptation in the virus, would raise CDC’s risk assessment.
These changes could indicate the virus is adapting to spread more readily from birds to people.
If human-to-human spread with this virus were to occur, that would raise the public health threat because it could mean the virus is adapting to spread better between people.
Note that sustained human-to-human spread is needed for a pandemic to occur.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update Human Infections with Avian Influenza A viruses What is CDC Doing?
Risk Assessment Ongoing RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights U.S.
Case of Human Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Reported Recent Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Pose a Low Risk to the Public Recent Asian A(H5N1) Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds Pose a Low Risk to the Public Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses VIEW ALL Bird Flu Recent Asian A(H5N1) Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds Pose a Low Risk to the Public SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone JUNE 7, 2024 ESPAÑOL CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results WHAT TO KNOW CDC has completed its initial study of the effects of the A(H5N1) bird flu virus from the human case in Texas on ferrets, a model used to assess potential impact on people.
What you need to know The A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas caused severe illness and death in ferrets.
A(H5N1) infection in ferrets has been fatal in the past.
This is different from what is seen with seasonal flu, which makes ferrets sick, but is not lethal.
The A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas spread efficiently between ferrets in direct contact but did not spread efficiently between ferrets via respiratory droplets.
This is different from what is seen with seasonal flu, which infects 100% of ferrets via respiratory droplets.
These findings are not surprising and do not change CDC's risk assessment for most people, which is low.
The results do reinforce the need for people who have exposure to infected animals to take precautions and for public health and agriculture communities to continue to work together to prevent the spread of the virus to additional dairy herds and people.
CDC researchers used a ferret model1 to better understand the severity of illness and efficiency of transmission of A/Texas/37/2024.
For decades, CDC has conducted these types of studies to inform risk assessments of influenza viruses with pandemic potential.
CDC used the virus from the human case in Texas which was reported on April 1, 2024, and was associated with sick dairy cow exposure.
These are the first publicly reported animal model findings from a virus that infected a human as part of the current multistate outbreak of A(H5N1).
Summary of study findings The study, completed on Friday, May 31, found that A/Texas/37/2024 virus caused severe disease (100% lethal) in all six ferrets that were infected.
This is consistent with what has been found recently in ferret studies with A(H5N1) viruses, including two published studies conducted in the past year.
Ferrets infected with A(H5N1) viruses from mink in Spain (A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022 ) and from a person in Chile (A/Chile/25945/2023 ) had severe illness that was either fatal or required euthanasia.
In terms of spread, the CDC ferret study found that the A/Texas/37/2024 virus spread easily among ferrets (3 of 3 ferrets, or 100%) in direct contact with infected ferrets (placed in the same enclosure).
However, the virus was less capable of spreading by respiratory droplets, which was tested by placing infected ferrets in enclosures next to healthy ferrets (with shared air but without direct contact).
In that situation, only 1 of 3 ferrets (33%) became infected, and there was a one- or two-day delay in transmission with the A/Texas/37/2024 virus compared to transmission with seasonal flu viruses.
This suggests that A/Texas/37/2024-like viruses would need to undergo changes to spread efficiently by droplets through the air, such as from coughs and sneezes.
CDC is repeating the experiment to confirm the findings and the results of these experiments will be used to inform an ongoing, broader CDC-led influenza risk assessment (IRAT) on A/Texas/37/2024.
In terms of direct contact spread, the mink virus from Spain caused efficient spread (100%) among ferrets.
The study using the Chile virus found 75% spread by direct contact among ferrets.
While the findings related to respiratory transmission were similar in that there was no efficient respiratory spread, there were differences in terms of whether any respiratory spread was observed or not.
The study cited previously using A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022 found 37.5% transmission by respiratory droplets.
The study using A/Chile/25945/2023 found no transmission by respiratory droplets.
The most recent CDC findings are more consistent with the findings with the mink virus from Spain than the virus from Chile.
(Additional information about ferret transmission findings with avian influenza is available below.) Conclusion and risk assessment Taken together, these findings underscore that the A(H5N1) viruses spreading in poultry, dairy cows, and other animals with sporadic human infections pose a serious potential public health risk and could cause serious illness in people.
While the three cases of A(H5N1) in the United States have been mild, it is possible that there will be serious illnesses among people.
Findings from this study are largely consistent with recent A(H5N1) studies in ferrets, as well as past reports of serious human illness resulting from this virus.
These findings also suggest; however, that current A(H5N1) viruses would need to undergo genetic changes to spread more easily via respiratory droplets, which is reassuring.
Efficient respiratory droplet spread, like what is seen with seasonal influenza viruses, is needed for sustained person-to-person spread to happen.
These findings do not change CDC's immediate risk assessment for the general public who do not have animal exposures, which is low.
Respiratory droplet spread compared There have been several prior respiratory droplet spread in ferrets with avian influenza viruses.
Selected studies: A study done using the avian influenza A(H7N9) virus (which has the highest pandemic risk assessment score on CDC's Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT)) found that "A/Hong Kong/125/2017" spread easily among ferrets in the same enclosure but only 1 of 3 ferrets in the adjacent enclosure became via respiratory droplets in that study.
A 2006 CDC study summarized results of a ferret study on A/Hong Kong/486/97 , an A(H5N1) virus isolated from a human case in 1997.
That study found respiratory droplet spread occurred in 2 of the 3 ferrets (66%).
At that time, A(H5N1) viruses had caused probable person-to-person spread.
That older 1997 A(H5N1) virus did not emerge to spread efficiently among people.
Person-to-person spread has not been observed with A(H5N1) viruses since 2007.
The previously mentioned 2024 study evaluated an A(H5N1) virus that caused an outbreak among mink at a mink farm in Spain ("A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022") and found that respiratory droplet spread occurred in 3 out of 8 ferrets (37.5%).
Of note, this study used a side-to-side airflow methodology; by contrast, CDC uses a top-to-bottom airflow approach.
Despite the differences in methods, the results from this study were similar to those found in the CDC study.
The most recently published CDC A(H5N1) ferret study was conducted on a virus from a human A(H5N1) case in Chile.
Investigators found efficient direct contact spread, but no respiratory droplet spread.
On the lowest end of the pandemic risk assessment scale, another ferret study looked at the effects of a low pathogenic avian influenza A(H7N9) virus (A/chicken/Tennessee/17-007431-3/2017) isolated from a multistate poultry outbreak in the United States with no human infections.
There was inefficient spread in the direct contact model, with only 1 of 3 co-housed ferrets becoming infected.
Because spread in the direct contact model was inefficient, spread by respiratory droplets was not studied.
Background on Ferret Studies Ferrets are considered the best small mammal for studying influenza virus infection and transmission and are commonly used as a tool to inform public health risk assessments of emerging influenza viruses.
In these studies, ferrets are experimentally infected and followed to assess severity of illness.
To test the ability of the virus to spread, infected ferrets are exposed to healthy ferrets in different settings.
Understanding the disease characteristics of novel influenza viruses and their capacity to spread is a critical component of any public health response.
ON THIS PAGE What you need to know Summary of study findings Conclusion and risk assessment Respiratory droplet spread compared Background on Ferret Studies RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Story: Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 Study Shows Novel Influenza Virus Infections in Humans in the United States Would Likely be Detected Through Existing Health Care Surveillance VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 For Everyone JUNE 7, 2024 PURPOSE CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “A(H5N1) virus,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
A(H5N1) bird flu June 7, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
To date, there have been 3 human cases associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
1 Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current A(H5N1) bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
All three sporadic cases had direct contact with infected cows.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 83 dairy cow herds in nine U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Posting an updated A(H5N1) Technical Report on June 5, 2024.
This report updates an April 26, 2024, report to include three additional sporadic human cases of avian influenza infection (1 in Australia and 2 in the United States).
The report also summarizes recent activity in wild birds, poultry, and other animals, including the multi-state outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle, and updated information on monitoring for human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in the United States.
People who have work or recreational exposures to infected animals are at higher risk of infection and should take precautions.
Posting a summary of the results from the ferret studies conducted by CDC on the A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas, on June 7, 2024.
Continuing work in the laboratory to characterize the virus from the second human case from Michigan.
CDC was able generate a full genetic sequence for the neuraminidase, but only a partial genetic sequence of the hemagglutinin from the second human case in Michigan.
No neuraminidase changes were identified that are associated with reduced antiviral susceptibility.
The partial hemagglutinin sequence indicates that the virus remains primarily avian.
There were no changes to the virus' receptor binding site that would enhance its ability to infect and spread to or between people.
There were no antigenic changes that would impact cross-protection of candidate vaccine viruses.
Partial sequences have been uploaded in public databases (GenBank : PP861022; PP861023; GISAID : EPI3352528; EPI3352530).
Posting an NCIRD Bulletin that describes data from existing H5N1 seroprevalence studies.
Although seroprevalence data to date are reassuring, it is important for CDC to continually assess the public health risk of viruses that have pandemic potential, like H5N1 bird flu viruses.
CDC has protocols for seroprevalence studies related to the H5N1 bird flu virus outbreak in dairy cows and other animals in the Unites States.
Providing technical assistance to Michigan Department of Health and Human Services as the department plans to launch a serology epidemiology study of people exposed to sick cows.
Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who may be at higher risk for infection than others in the population.
On May 30, CDC launched digital outreach efforts aimed at farmworkers in affected communities to increase awareness of the risks of A(H5N1) and recommended preventive actions.
Static English Meta (Facebook and Instagram) placements in the first week delivered more than 1 million impressions in affected counties.
Spanish language Meta launched on Thursday, June 6, delivering nearly 2,500 impressions within the first hour in market.
Digital display and local radio placements are forthcoming.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 500 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 45 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
As part of plans to maintain enhanced surveillance over the summer, CDC will maintain sequencing and testing through the National Influenza Reference Center laboratories and the Influenza Sequencing Centers (ISC).
These are centers that serve as an extension of CDC's laboratory and conduct testing and sequencing on samples from public health laboratories.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE A(H5N1) bird flu CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 Story: Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update May 31, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Overview of Influenza Testing Methods Health Care Providers AUG.
8, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW Influenza virus testing is not required to make a clinical diagnosis of influenza in outpatients with suspected influenza.
Influenza virus testing is recommended for all patients with suspected influenza who are being admitted to hospital.
Clinicians should understand the limitations of influenza virus tests and how to properly interpret the results, particularly negative results.
Diagnostic tests available for detection of influenza viruses in respiratory specimens include molecular assays and antigen detection tests.
Background Influenza virus testing is not required to make a clinical diagnosis of influenza in outpatients with suspected influenza, particularly during increased influenza activity when seasonal influenza A and B viruses are circulating in the local community.
However, influenza virus testing can inform clinical management when the results may influence clinical decisions such as whether to initiate antiviral treatment, perform other diagnostic testing, or to implement infection prevention and control measures for influenza.
Influenza virus testing is recommended for all patients with suspected influenza who are being admitted to hospital.
Most importantly, clinicians should understand the limitations of influenza virus tests and how to properly interpret the results, particularly negative results.
During a respiratory illness outbreak in a closed setting (e.g., hospitals, long-term care facility, cruise ship, boarding school, summer camp) testing for influenza virus infection can be very helpful in determining if influenza is the cause of the outbreak.
Types of tests Diagnostic tests available for detection of influenza viruses in respiratory specimens include molecular assays (including rapid molecular assays, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and other nucleic acid amplification tests); and antigen detection tests (including rapid influenza diagnostic tests and immunofluorescence assays).
Viral culture is important for public health purposes, but does not provide timely results to inform clinical management.
Sensitivity and specificity of any test for influenza viruses in respiratory specimens might vary by the type of testing used, the time from illness onset to specimen collection, the quality of the specimen collected, the respiratory source of the specimen, handling and processing of the specimen, and the time from specimen collection to testing.
The post-test probability or predictive values (positive and negative predictive values) of an influenza virus test depend upon the prevalence of circulating seasonal influenza viruses in the patient population, and the specific test characteristics (sensitivity and specificity) compared to a "gold standard" comparison test (molecular assay or viral culture).
As with any diagnostic test, results should be evaluated in the context of other clinical and epidemiologic information available to health care providers.
Serological testing does not provide timely results to inform clinical management decisions.
The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) recommends use of rapid influenza molecular assays over rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) for detection of influenza viruses in respiratory specimens of outpatients.
IDSA recommends use of RT-PCR or other molecular assays for detection of influenza viruses in respiratory specimens of hospitalized patients.
Consult the IDSA Influenza Clinical Practice Guidelines for recommendations on influenza testing and information on interpretation of testing results.
FOR PUBLIC HEALTH Table 1: Influenza Virus Testing Methods Rapid Molecular Assays Rapid molecular assays are a kind of molecular influenza diagnostic test to detect influenza virus nucleic acids in upper respiratory tract specimens with high sensitivity (90-95%) and specificity.
FDA-cleared rapid molecular assays are available that produce results in approximately 15-30 minutes.
Some of these rapid molecular assays are clinical laboratory improvement amendments (CLIA)-waived for point-of-care use.
Other Molecular Assays Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and other molecular assays can identify the presence of influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in respiratory specimens with very high sensitivity and specificity.
These assays can yield results in approximately 45 minutes to several hours depending upon the assay.
Notably, the detection of influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids by these assays does not necessarily indicate detection of viable infectious virus or on-going influenza viral replication.
It is important to note that not all assays have been cleared by the FDA for diagnostic use.
Some multiplex molecular assays are available that can detect influenza viral nucleic acids and distinguish influenza virus infection from other respiratory pathogens and may also be useful for management of severely immunosuppressed patients, or for use in identifying the cause of an institutional outbreak of respiratory illness.
Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests Rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) are antigen detection assays that can detect influenza viral antigens in 10-15 minutes with moderate sensitivity (50-70%) and high specificity.
Some tests are CLIA-waived and approved for use in any outpatient setting, whereas others must be used in a moderately complex clinical laboratory.
Some RIDTs utilize reader device to standardize results to improve sensitivity (75-80%).
FDA now requires RIDTs to achieve 80% sensitivity.
Detection of influenza virus antigen does not necessarily indicate detection of viable infectious virus or on-going influenza viral replication.
None of the rapid influenza diagnostic tests provide information about influenza A virus subtypes.
The types of specimens acceptable for use (i.e., nasopharyngeal, or nasal aspirates, swabs, or washes) also vary by test.
The specificity and, in particular, the sensitivity of rapid influenza diagnostic tests are lower than for viral culture and RT-PCR and vary by test.
Most of the rapid influenza diagnostic tests that can be done in a physician's office are approximately 50-70% sensitive for detecting influenza virus antigens and greater than 90% specific.
Recently the FDA has reclassified the RIDTs and published requirements for improved accuracy, including higher sensitivity.
Tests with low to moderate sensitivity and high specificity can produce false negative results more commonly than false positive results, especially during peak influenza activity in the community.
Because of the lower sensitivity of the rapid influenza diagnostic tests, clinicians should consider confirming negative test results with molecular assays, especially during periods of peak community influenza activity and/or during suspected institutional influenza outbreaks because of the possibility of false-negative RIDT results.
In contrast, false-positive RIDT results are less likely, but can occur and are more common during periods of low influenza activity.
Therefore, when interpreting results of a rapid influenza diagnostic test, clinicians should consider the of the test in the context of the level of influenza activity in their community ( See Algorithm to assist in the interpretation of influenza testing results and clinical decision-making during periods when influenza viruses are circulating in the community and Algorithm to assist in the interpretation of influenza testing results and clinical decision-making during periods when influenza viruses are NOT circulating in the community for more information).
Package inserts and the laboratory performing the test should be consulted for more details regarding use of rapid influenza diagnostic tests.
Immunofluorescence Immunofluorescence assays are antigen detection assays that generally require use of a fluorescent microscope to produce results in approximately 2-4 hours with moderate sensitivity and high specificity.
Both direct (DFA) and indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) staining assays are available to detect influenza A and B viral antigens in respiratory tract specimens.
Viral Culture Viral culture results do not yield timely results to inform clinical management.
Shell-vial tissue culture results may take 1-3 days, while traditional tissue-cell viral culture results may take 3-10 days.
However, viral culture allows for extensive antigenic and genetic characterization of influenza viruses.
The collection of some respiratory samples for viral culture is essential for surveillance and antigenic characterization of new seasonal influenza A and B virus strains that may need to be included in the next year's influenza vaccine.
Serologic Testing Serological testing for influenza is not recommended for clinical decision-making.
Although offered by some commercial laboratories, serological testing results for antibodies to influenza A or B viruses on a single serum specimen cannot be reliably interpreted.
Proper serological testing for diagnosis of influenza requires paired acute and convalescent sera collected 2-3 weeks apart, with reliable testing at a limited number of public health or research laboratories to assess a 4-fold or greater rise in influenza virus strain-specific antibodies.
Therefore, serological testing for influenza does not provide timely results to help with clinical decisions-making and is not recommended except for research and public health investigations.
Novel Influenza A Virus Infections If human infection with a novel influenza A virus of animal origin (e.g.
avian influenza A virus or swine influenza A virus) is suspected, the local and state health department should be contacted to perform RT-PCR for seasonal influenza viruses and novel influenza A viruses.
Commercially available influenza diagnostic tests do not specifically detect novel influenza A viruses and a positive result for influenza A virus cannot distinguish seasonal influenza A virus from avian or swine influenza A virus infections.
Information about novel influenza A viruses is available at: Testing, Reporting & Lab Information Interim Guidance for Clinicians on Human Infections with Variant Influenza Viruses Table 1: Influenza Virus Testing Methods ON THIS PAGE Background Types of tests Novel Influenza A Virus Infections RELATED PAGES Influenza virus testing in investigational outbreaks in institutional or other closed settings Guide for considering influenza testing when influenza viruses are circulating in the community Information on interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is circulating Testing and Management Considerations for Nursing Home Residents with Acute Respiratory Illness Symptoms when SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza Viruses are Co-circulating Multiplex Assays Authorized for Simultaneous Detection of Influenza Viruses and SARS-CoV-2 by FDA VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Influenza virus testing in investigational outbreaks in institutional or other closed settings SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Ticks EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Prevention What to Do After a Tick Bite Tick Data Communication Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Tickborne Disease Continuing Education Tickborne Diseases of the United States VIEW ALL Related Topics: Vector-Borne Diseases View All For Everyone OCTOBER 11, 2024 Tick Lifecycles KEY POINTS Most ticks go through four life stages: egg, six-legged larva, eight-legged nymph, and adult.
After hatching from the eggs, ticks must eat blood at every stage to survive.
Ticks usually acquire pathogens early in their life (larval or nymphal stages) when they feed on animals.
They transmit those pathogens to other animals or to people later in their life (nymphal or adult stages).
Hosts Ticks can feed on mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians.
Most ticks prefer to have a different host animal at each stage of their life.
Ticks that require this many hosts can take up to 3 years to complete their full life cycle, and most will die because they don’t find a host for their next feeding.
Some tick species, like the brown dog tick, prefer to feed on the same host during all life stages.
Keep reading‎ More information about how ticks find their hosts.
Lifecycles Ixodes scapularis The lifecycle of Ixodes scapularis ticks generally lasts two years.
During this time, they go through four life stages: egg, larva, nymph, and adult.
After the eggs hatch, the ticks must have a blood meal at every stage to survive.
Blacklegged ticks can feed from mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians.
The ticks need a new host at each stage of their life.
View Larger Blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) lifecycle.
Ixodes pacificus The lifecycle of Ixodes pacificus ticks generally lasts three years.
During this time, they go through four life stages: egg, larva, nymph, and adult.
After the eggs hatch, the ticks must have a blood meal at every stage to survive.
Blacklegged ticks can feed from mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians.
The ticks need a new host at each stage of their life.
View Larger Western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus) lifecycle.
Rhipicephalus sanguineus Rhipicephalus sanguineus, brown dog ticks, spread the bacteria that causes Rocky Mountain spotted fever in some parts of the southwestern United States and Mexico.
View Larger This diagram shows the typical lifecycle of brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus).
RELATED PAGES About Where Ticks Live Prevention What to Do After a Tick Bite Tick Data VIEW ALL Ticks Where Ticks Live SOURCES PRINT SHARE Ticks In the United States, ticks can spread germs that make people sick.
Learn where ticks live, how to prevent tick bites, and what to do after a tick bite.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses For Everyone FEB.
24, 2023 WHAT TO KNOW Dr.
Tim Uyeki, Chief Medical Officer of the Influenza Division at CDC, answers common questions about highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, which have been detected in the United States in wild birds since late 2021 and commercial and backyard poultry since February 2022.
What is the extent of the current outbreak of influenza A(H5N1) in birds?
Like much of the rest of the world, the United States continues to experience outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus in wild birds and poultry.
HPAI A(H5N1) virus has been circulating among birds and poultry in different parts of the world for many years and continuing to evolve into different groups that are referred to as clades.
The current clade of H5N1 virus, called clade 2.3.4.4b, appears well-adapted to spread efficiently among wild birds and poultry in many regions of the world and was first identified in wild birds in the United States in January 2022.
Since then, this current clade 2.3.4.4b HPAI A(H5N1) virus has been detected in wild birds in all 50 states and has caused bird outbreaks in 47 states affecting more than 58 million commercial poultry and backyard flocks.
What about H5N1 virus among humans?
Seven sporadic human cases associated with poultry exposures during this outbreak of contemporary HPAI A(H5N1) viruses have been reported globally since January 2022, one of which was identified in the United States.
In four of these cases, no respiratory symptoms were reported.
It is possible that some of these cases did not represent virus infection but rather detection of non-infectious H5N1 virus genetic material in respiratory specimens following prolonged exposure to infected birds.
In three cases, severe disease occurred, including one death.
No human-to-human spread of H5N1 virus was identified in any of these cases.
Sporadic human infections with contemporary H5N1 viruses are not surprising, especially among people who do not take recommended precautions (such as wearing personal protective equipment, including respiratory protection, for example).
Since 1997, more than 880 human cases, nearly all from previously circulating H5N1 virus clades, have been reported from 21 countries with high mortality, but very few cases have been identified worldwide since 2016.
A small number of sporadic human infections with H5N1 virus does not change the risk to the general public, which CDC currently considers to be low.
What about H5N1 virus among mammals?
Although H5N1 viruses primarily infect different types of wild birds and domestic poultry, H5N1 viruses also can infect other animals.
Sporadic H5N1 virus infections of mammals have been reported for more than 20 years in different countries that have experienced H5N1 outbreaks in poultry or wild birds.
H5N1 viruses can infect mammals that are exposed to environments with a high concentration of virus or that eat (presumably infected) sick or dead birds or poultry, including but not limited to wild or feral animals such as foxes; stray or domestic animals such as cats and dogs; and zoo animals such as tigers and leopards .
Recently, sporadic H5N1 virus infections in different mammals, including bears, wild foxes , and skunks , have been reported in Canada , the United States , and other countries, including mink in Spain and sea lions in Peru.
Reports of sporadic H5N1 virus infections of predatory and scavenger mammals are not unexpected given widespread H5N1 virus infections in wild birds worldwide.
Minks Does the detection of H5N1 viruses in farmed mink change the assessment of the risk to human health?
CDC and other partner agencies have characterized the H5N1 viruses from farmed mink detected in Spain and have not found any indications that would point to increased ability to infect humans.
H5N1 viruses do not currently have an ability to easily infect the human upper respiratory tract, which would be needed to increase the risk of transmission to people.
Although it is uncommon, H5N1 viruses can bind to receptors in the human lower respiratory tract.
Mink have been shown to have two different kinds of cell receptors in their respiratory tracts, one kind of which allows for more efficient infection with H5N1 viruses.
As a result, mink are much more susceptible to H5N1 virus infection than people.
If there were mink-to-mink spread of H5N1 virus (for example in the outbreak in Spain), would that change the assessment of the risk to human health?
While there was a genetic marker in the H5N1 viruses detected during the outbreak in mink in Spain that may have resulted in more severe disease in mink and potentially easier mink-to-mink transmission, this marker is unlikely to make it easier for infection to transmit to humans.
Besides this marker, the genomic sequence of the H5N1 viruses isolated from mink was very similar to H5N1 viruses found in birds.
Humans lack the type of cell receptor in the upper respiratory tract that H5N1 viruses use to cause infection.
Mink, on the other hand, have two different kinds of cell receptors in their respiratory tracts, one kind of which allows for easier infection with H5N1 viruses.
As a result, mink are more susceptible to infection with H5N1 viruses than people, and limited mink-to-mink spread of H5N1 virus, especially in an environment with close contact among animals, would not be surprising.
What is CDC doing to monitor these viruses in people?
CDC's existing influenza surveillance systems are well-equipped to rapidly detect cases of avian influenza A virus infection, including H5N1 virus, in people.
Influenza virus detection assays, which can detect both seasonal and novel influenza A viruses, are used in 128 public health laboratories in all 50 U.S states and 170 laboratories globally.
Additionally, there are diagnostic assays to specifically detect the current H5N1 viruses available at 99 public health laboratories in all 50 U.S.
states and 129 international laboratories, representing 116 countries.
CDC, along with our state and local public health partners, also continues to actively monitor people who have been exposed to infected birds and poultry for 10 days after exposure.
To date, public health departments have monitored more than 6,200 people in 52 jurisdictions who were exposed to birds/poultry infected with H5N1 virus and reported this information to CDC.
Of these, 161 people who were being monitored showed symptoms and subsequently were tested for novel influenza A and seasonal influenza viruses along with other respiratory viruses.
H5N1 virus genetic material was only detected in a respiratory specimen from one person in Colorado who experienced fatigue from participating in poultry culling activities and was likely not infected with the virus.
Other agencies are responsible for monitoring for disease in poultry and wild birds and wildlife.
Other Questions Why doesn't this virus appear to spread from human-to-human?
H5N1 viruses currently circulating in wild birds and causing poultry outbreaks are well-adapted to spread among birds.
However, these H5N1 bird flu viruses do not have the ability to easily bind to receptors in the upper respiratory tract of humans, or to transmit among people.
Is it possible this virus will cause the next pandemic?
We cannot predict when the next influenza pandemic will occur or what virus will cause the next pandemic.
The origin of the 1918 H1N1 pandemic virus may have been an avian influenza A virus.
The 1957 H2N2 pandemic influenza virus and the 1968 H3N2 pandemic influenza virus both resulted from a combination of genes from human and low pathogenic avian influenza A viruses.
The 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza virus resulted from a combination of genes from human, avian, and swine influenza A viruses and is believed to have emerged from pigs to transmit among people.
There are many kinds of avian influenza A viruses and swine influenza A viruses that have sporadically infected people worldwide.
Therefore, constant vigilance and ongoing surveillance for novel influenza viruses worldwide is needed in people and animals – especially in poultry and pigs.
Is there a vaccine to prevent bird flu infection in humans?
An H5 candidate vaccine virus (CVV) recently produced by CDC is nearly identical or, in many samples, identical to the hemagglutinin (HA) protein of recently detected clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 viruses in birds and mammals (including the mink outbreak) and could be used to produce a vaccine for people, if needed, and would provide good protections against the circulating H5N1 viruses.
This H5 CVV is available and has been shared with vaccine manufacturers.
Is there treatment available for people who get sick with bird flu?
People with avian influenza A virus infection are recommended to be treated as soon as possible with antiviral drugs that are FDA-approved for treatment of seasonal influenza.
Such antiviral drugs include oseltamivir, zanamivir, peramivir, and baloxavir.
Antiviral treatment works best when started as soon as symptoms begin.
For patients who require hospitalization, antiviral treatment with oseltamivir is recommended as soon as possible, and clinical management is focused on supportive care of complications, including advanced organ support in an intensive care unit for patients with severe pneumonia.
Should the general public be worried about H5N1?
The current public health threat to people from H5N1 virus is low.
The current H5N1 outbreak in poultry and birds continues to be mostly an animal health issue.
However, people should avoid direct and close contact with sick or dead wild birds, poultry, and wild animals.
People should not consume uncooked or undercooked poultry or poultry products, including raw eggs.
Consuming properly cooked poultry, poultry products, and eggs is safe.
Other preventive measures are available at: Bird Flu: Current Situation Summary Tim Uyeki, MD, MPH, MPP, serves as Chief Medical Officer in the Influenza Division at CDC.
He has worked at CDC on the clinical aspects, epidemiology, prevention, and control of influenza in the U.S.
and worldwide since 1998, with particular interest in human infections with avian influenza A viruses, clinical management of patients with influenza, and emerging viral infectious diseases.
He has participated in field investigations of human cases of H5N1 in multiple countries and contributed to World Health Organization recommendations for the clinical management of patients with seasonal and pandemic influenza, and novel influenza A virus infections, including H5N1, for many years.
More stories Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses ON THIS PAGE What is the extent of the current outbreak of influenza A(H5N1) in birds?
What about H5N1 virus among humans?
What about H5N1 virus among mammals?
Minks What is CDC doing to monitor these viruses in people?
Other Questions More stories RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Updated: H5N1 Bird Flu Virus in U.S.
Wild Birds and Poultry Poses a Low Risk to the Public Recent Asian A(H5N1) Bird Flu Infections in U.S.
Wild Birds Pose a Low Risk to the Public Updated Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Avian Influenza A(H5N1) U.S.
Situation Update and CDC Activities VIEW ALL Bird Flu Updated Ask the Expert: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure For Everyone JUNE 14, 2024 AT A GLANCE A new CDC study reports what happened when the eyes of ferrets were experimentally exposed to an avian influenza A(H5N1) ("A(H5N1) bird flu") virus isolated from a human case that occurred in 2023 in Chile.
New Study June 14, 2024—A new CDC study reports what happened when the eyes of ferrets were experimentally exposed to an avian influenza A(H5N1) ("A(H5N1) bird flu") virus isolated from a human case that occurred in 2023 in Chile.
The study found: The ferrets experienced severe disease with fever and weight loss; The ferrets' nasal specimens contained detectable virus, and the ferrets were able to spread virus to healthy ferrets via direct contact; and, After infection, virus was found outside of the respiratory tract, including in the intestinal tract, the central nervous system, as well as the eyes of the ferrets.
Ferrets are an animal model often used to assess the potential impact of respiratory diseases on people.
The virus used in this study, A/Chile/25945/2023 HPAI A(H5N1), was isolated from a severe human case identified in March 2023 in the South American nation of Chile.
It is closely related to the virus that is causing a multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) virus in U.S.
dairy cows with three sporadic human infections.
Two of the three infected people in the United States reported eye redness and discomfort (consistent with conjunctivitis) after exposure to sick cows; the third person had mild respiratory illness.
All three have since recovered.
No human-to-human spread of the virus has been identified, and CDC believes the immediate risk to the public is low.
People who have work or recreational exposures to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
The findings from this study highlight the potential for A(H5N1) viruses to cause infection in people after exposure to virus via the eyes.
Tear fluid provides an opportunity for virus to spread from the eyes to nasal/respiratory tract through the tear ducts and vice versa.
The findings also underscore the importance of eye protection when working around infected animals or potentially contaminated environments or liquids/surfaces, like raw milk.
Previous CDC research has shown that this same virus from Chile caused severe and fatal disease in ferrets that were experimentally exposed through the nose and/or direct contact settings with infected ferrets.
That study found no ferret-to-ferret spread of the virus from Chile via respiratory droplets.
In this study, published on June 12 in the journal Emerging Microbes & Infections, researchers tested whether ferrets exposed to A/Chile/25945/2023 via the eyes became infected with the virus and were similarly capable of spreading it in a direct contact setting.
Researchers placed a healthy ferret in the enclosure of each infected ferret; collected nasal, rectal, and conjunctival specimens from all animals over the course of seven days; and assessed virus replication within and beyond the respiratory tract.
Infectious virus was detected in either nasal swab or rectal swab specimens from all six previously healthy ferrets that had been co-housed with infected ferrets, four of which developed severe disease and were humanely euthanized.
While most infections with influenza viruses result in respiratory disease, conjunctivitis (eye infection) has been associated with previous human infections with avian influenza A viruses and is part of the current CDC case definition for A(H5N1) virus surveillance.
Possible explanations for how infection via the eyes might occur include: contamination of the eye(s), potentially with a splash of contaminated fluid, such as milk; high levels of A(H5N1) virus have been found in unpasteurized milk from H5N1-infected cows.
touching the eye(s) with something contaminated with A(H5N1) virus, such as a hand.
virus-containing aerosols expelled from infected people during breathing, coughing, or sneezing.
This study, the first to evaluate the ability of clade 2.3.4.4b A(H5N1) viruses to cause disease following a non-respiratory entry portal, builds on close to two decades of CDC research investigating the role of infection via the eyes in the spread of influenza viruses and the progression of disease.
The findings underscore the ability of influenza viruses to cause infection following non-respiratory exposures and the importance of CDC's ongoing efforts to inform and educate people who work with dairy cows, or other potentially infected animals, about actions they can take to reduce their risk of exposure, including by wearing personal protective equipment like gloves, masks, and goggles or face shields.
Last week, CDC posted a web spotlight summarizing other work in ferrets using the virus from the human case of H5N1 in Texas.
RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 For Everyone JUNE 14, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) bird flu virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC update June 14, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "A(H5N1) virus," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
To date, there have been 3 human cases associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
A Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current A(H5N1) bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
All three sporadic cases had direct contact with infected cows.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 92 dairy cow herds in 12 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Finalizing flu serology studies to determine the population immunity among the U.S.
general population to the A(H5N1) clade 2.3.3.4b viruses causing outbreaks among animals in the United States.
CDC analyzed sera (blood) collected from people of all ages in all 10 HHS regions.
Blood samples were collected during the 2022-2023 and 2021-2022 flu seasons.
These samples were challenged with H5N1 virus to see whether there was an antibody reaction.
Data from this study suggest that there is extremely low to no population immunity to clade 2.3.4.4b A(H5N1) viruses in the United States.
Antibody levels remained low regardless of whether or not the participants had gotten a seasonal flu vaccination, meaning that seasonal flu vaccination did not produce antibodies to A(H5N1) viruses.
This means that there is little to no pre-existing immunity to this virus and most of the population would be susceptible to infection from this virus if it were to start infecting people easily and spreading from person-to-person.
This finding is not unexpected because A(H5N1) viruses have not spread widely in people and are very different from current and recently circulating human seasonal influenza A viruses.
Earlier analyses have found that A(H5N1) viruses are susceptible to influenza antiviral medications and that two existing candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) would offer good cross-protection against A(H5N1) cattle outbreak viruses.
Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who may be at higher risk for infection than others in the population.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 550 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 45 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlights Also, of note this week: CDC published a new study that looked at whether the 2.3.4.4b A(H5N1) virus isolated from a human case in Chile in 2023 causes and spreads disease through eye infection.
The study found that the virus caused severe disease in ferrets infected following eye exposure.
This study emphasizes the threat A(H5N1) viruses contribute to public health and demonstrates the value of studying nontraditional routes of virus exposure and wearing eye protection when working in potentially contaminated environments.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC update Publication Highlights CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 Story: Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 7, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Story: Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Multiplex Assays Authorized for Simultaneous Detection of Influenza Viruses and SARS-CoV-2 by FDA Health Care Providers MAY 23, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW Multiplex testing for influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 can facilitate early diagnosis and antiviral treatment of influenza and COVID-19.
Background Influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, as well as other respiratory viruses usually co-circulate during the fall and winter months in most of the United States.
Influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 can cause acute respiratory illnesses with similar signs and symptoms such as fever, chills, cough, malaise, sore throat, and headache.
Molecular testing, such as nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs), is recommended for symptomatic patients suspected of having influenza and/or COVID-19 to help facilitate early initiation of treatment, if indicated.
Although, limited data are available on evaluation of real-world use of tests for influenza and COVID-19 and the impact of multiplex testing on patient outcomes, early data suggests that use of point-of-care molecular multiplex influenza virus, SARS-CoV-2, and RSV testing resulted in fewer insurance claims, faster time to diagnosis, and faster time to treatment than laboratory-based molecular testing.
Information on available influenza assays, including multiplex assays for detection of influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 is available from FDA.
 .
FDA also provides information on available at-home SARS CoV-2 tests, including at-home multiplex assays for detection of influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2.
At-Home OTC COVID-19 Diagnostic Tests | FDA Information on interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is circulating for Health Care Settings Information for Healthcare Providers on Interpretation of Influenza Testing Results when Influenza Viruses are not circulating during Influenza Season Overview of Testing for SARS-CoV-2 RELATED PAGES Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Information on interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is circulating Testing and Management Considerations for Nursing Home Residents with Acute Respiratory Illness Symptoms when SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza Viruses are Co-circulating Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Testing and Management Considerations for Nursing Home Residents with Acute Respiratory Illness Symptoms when SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza Viruses are Co-circulating Health Care Providers NOV.
14, 2023 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF SEASONAL INFLUENZA WITH VACCINES: RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON IMMUNIZATION PRACTICES — UNITED STATES, 2025-2026 INFLUENZA SEASON HAS BEEN PUBLISHED.
UPDATES TO THIS PAGE ARE FORTHCOMING.
Learn more WHAT TO KNOW The following practices should be considered when SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza viruses are found to be co-circulating based upon local public health surveillance data and testing at local healthcare facilities.
While these considerations are specific to care of residents residing in nursing homes, some practices could be adapted for use in other long-term care settings (e.g.
assisted living communities).
Guidance 1.
Place symptomatic residents in Transmission-Based Precautions using all recommended PPE for care of a resident with suspected SARS-CoV-2 infection.1 Because some of the signs and symptoms of influenza and COVID-19 are similar, it may be difficult to tell the difference between these two respiratory diseases based on symptoms alone.
Residents in the facility who develop symptoms of acute illness consistent with influenza or COVID-19 should be moved to a single room, if available, or remain in their current room, pending results of viral testing.
They should not be placed in a room with new roommates, nor should they be moved to a COVID-19 care unit (if one exists), unless they are confirmed to have COVID-19 by SARS-CoV-2 testing.
Nursing home residents, including older adults, those who are medically fragile, and those with neurological or neurocognitive conditions, may manifest atypical signs and symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 or influenza virus infection and may not have fever or respiratory symptoms.
Less common symptoms can include new or worsening malaise, headache, or new dizziness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and loss of taste or smell.
Test any resident with symptoms of COVID-19 or influenza for both SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses as soon as possible.
Symptomatic residents should be tested for SARS-CoV-2 and influenza to distinguish between COVID-19 and influenza and other respiratory viral diseases and to guide decisions about treatment and infection prevention and control measures.
Because antiviral treatment for either COVID-19 or influenza is indicated early in the course of illness and should be started soon after symptom onset, a symptomatic resident's antiviral treatment options should be assessed immediately.
Given the complexity with prescribing some COVID-19 medications (e.g., drug interactions), assessment of the availability and appropriateness of antiviral treatment prior to the resident developing symptoms will help to avoid delay in antiviral treatment initiation.
Locating a pharmacy that stocks antiviral medications is also important.
In symptomatic residents with a strong suspicion for COVID-19 or influenza (e.g., recent exposure or facility outbreak), empiric antiviral treatment can be started before testing results are available and stopped if results are negative.
If empiric antiviral treatment is not started, residents who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 or influenza viruses should be started on appropriate antiviral treatment as soon as testing results are available.
Because a resident can have multiple exposures or co-infection with SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses, an incorrect clinical diagnosis could result in missed opportunities for treatment and sub-optimal infection prevention measures.
A positive influenza test result without SARS-CoV-2 testing does not rule out SARS-CoV-2 infection, and a positive SARS-CoV-2 test result without influenza testing does not rule out influenza virus infection.
Stay connected with the healthcare-associated infection program in your state health department, as well as your local health department, and understand their notification requirements.
The local public health and state health departments should be notified of every suspected or confirmed influenza virus or SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in a long-term care facility, especially if a resident develops influenza while on or after receiving antiviral chemoprophylaxis for influenza.
A) Obtain respiratory specimens for influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2 testing.23 Check the manufacturer's package insert for approved respiratory specimens.
There are no FDA-cleared influenza diagnostic assays that utilize saliva specimens.
If available, multiplex nucleic acid detection assay for SARS-CoV-2, influenza A and B viruses can be performed onsite, or at an offsite clinical laboratory.45 Two different specimens may need to be collected if a multiplex nucleic acid detection assay including both influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 is unavailable.23 B) Test for SARS-CoV-2 by nucleic acid amplification tests OR by SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection assay.6 Because antigen detection assays have lower sensitivity than nucleic acid detection assays for detecting SARS-CoV-2 in upper respiratory tract specimens, nucleic acid amplification tests are preferred among symptomatic persons with high risk of severe disease, including older adults, and high index of suspicion for SARS-CoV-2 infection, so treatment is not delayed.
If an antigen detection assay is used, it is important to note that one negative SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection assay result in a symptomatic person does not exclude SARS-CoV-2 infection and the result should be confirmed by either a negative result from a SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection assay or a second negative antigen test result on an upper respiratory tract specimen collected 48 hours after the first negative test result.7 If the second antigen test is negative, per FDA guidance , a third antigen test could be considered if there is a high clinical suspicion of COVID-19.
New SARS-CoV-2 infection identified in healthcare personnel or nursing home-onset infection in a resident should prompt additional testing of other residents and staff in the facility and prompt implementation of recommended infection prevention and control measure.1 C) Test for influenza by rapid influenza nucleic acid detection assay;8 if a rapid influenza nucleic acid detection assay is not available, perform rapid influenza antigen detection assay.9 Because of lower sensitivities to detect influenza viruses, confirm negative rapid influenza antigen detection test results in a symptomatic person by influenza nucleic acid detection assay.
D) Test for other respiratory pathogens; if residents with acute respiratory illness test negative for both influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 per the above testing recommendations, consider additional viral (e.g., RSV) or bacterial testing based on respiratory pathogens known or suspected of circulating in the community.
Placement Decisions A) Residents confirmed to have SARS-CoV-2 infection should be placed in a single room, if available, or housed with other residents with only SARS-CoV-2 infection.
If unable to move a resident, he or she could remain in the current room with measures in place to reduce transmission to roommates (e.g., optimizing ventilation).
Residents found to have SARS-CoV-2 and influenza virus co-infection should be placed in a single room or housed with other co-infected residents.
These residents should continue to be cared for using all recommended PPE for the care of a resident with SARS-CoV-2 infection.1 If single room isolation or cohorting of residents with SARS-CoV-2 and influenza virus co-infection is not possible, consult with public health authorities for guidance on other management options (e.g., transferring the resident; placing physical barriers between beds in shared rooms and initiating antiviral chemoprophylaxis for roommates to reduce their risk of acquiring influenza, improving ventilation by adding HEPA filters).
B) Residents confirmed to have influenza virus infection only should be placed in a single room, if available, or housed with other residents with only influenza virus infection.
If unable to move a resident, he or she could remain in the current room with measures in place to reduce transmission to roommates (e.g., optimizing ventilation, antiviral chemoprophylaxis for exposed roommates).
Residents with influenza should be placed in Droplet Precautions, in addition to Standard Precautions.
As part of Standard Precautions, eye protection should be worn if splashes or sprays are anticipated (e.g., the resident is coughing or sneezing).
Because it can be difficult to anticipate potential for coughs and sneezes, facilities might consider having healthcare personnel routinely wear eye protection for the care of residents with influenza.
C) Residents with symptoms of acute respiratory illness who are determined to have neither SARS-CoV-2 nor influenza virus infection should be cared for using Standard Precautions and any additional Transmission-Based Precautions based on their suspected or confirmed diagnosis.10 4.
Clinical Management11 A) Prescribe antiviral treatment as soon as possible if influenza testing is positive OR prescribe empiric antiviral treatment based upon a clinical suspicion of influenza while test results are pending for symptomatic residents.111213 Antiviral treatment for influenza should be administered as soon as possible following clinical diagnosis.
B) Properly manage residents with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Recommendations for treatment of persons with COVID-19 are available from the Infectious Disease Society of America (ISDA) Guidelines on the Treatment and Management of Patients with COVID-19 .
Treatment should be administered as soon as possible for nursing home residents with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 who are at high risk of progression to severe COVID-19.
See How to Approach a Patient When Considering Pharmacologic Treatments for COVID-19 .
C) For adult patients with suspected community-acquired pneumonia who do not require hospitalization, see antibiotic treatment recommendations from the American Thoracic Society-Infectious Diseases Society of America Adult Community-acquired Pneumonia Guidelines.14 D) Antiviral chemoprophylaxis considerations.111215 Influenza: The facility should promptly initiate antiviral chemoprophylaxis with oral oseltamivir to all exposed individuals (e.g., roommates) of residents with confirmed influenza.
When at least 2 residents are ill within 72 hours of each other with laboratory-confirmed influenza, the facility should expand antiviral chemoprophylaxis to non-ill residents living on the same unit as the residents with influenza (outbreak affected units), regardless of influenza vaccination status.
Persons receiving antiviral chemoprophylaxis who develop signs or symptoms should be tested for influenza (see above) and switched to antiviral treatment doses if they test positive for influenza.
SARS-CoV-2: Post-exposure prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2 is not recommended .16 E) Encourage influenza vaccination for unvaccinated residents and healthcare personnel.
The facility should encourage influenza vaccination of all residents and staff.
F) Encourage residents and healthcare personnel to remain up to date with recommended COVID-19 vaccine doses.
The facility should encourage all individuals to be up to date with all recommended COVID-19 vaccine doses, based upon the latest recommendations.
G) Encourage RSV vaccination for unvaccinated residents aged 60 years and older.
The facility should encourage RSV vaccination among nursing home residents and eligible healthcare personnel.
H) Encourage pneumococcal vaccination for unvaccinated residents aged 65 years and older, and for younger high-risk individuals.
The facility should encourage eligible high-risk residents to receive pneumococcal vaccination.
I) Simultaneously administer the vaccines for which residents and healthcare personnel are eligible.
In general, simultaneous administration of vaccines remains a best practice.
Providers should continue to simultaneously administer the vaccines for which a patient is eligible, including COVID-19, influenza, and pneumococcal vaccines.
Simultaneous administration of RSV vaccine with other vaccines for older adults is also acceptable.
When deciding whether to simultaneously administer other vaccines with RSV vaccine on the same day, providers should consider whether the patient is up to date with recommendations for currently recommended vaccines, the feasibility of administering additional vaccine doses later, risk for acquiring vaccine-preventable disease, vaccine reactogenicity profiles, and patient preferences.
One influenza vaccine, trivalent adjuvanted inactivated influenza vaccine (aIIV3), contains a nonaluminum adjuvant.
Guidance on administering aIIV3 with other vaccines containing non-aluminum adjuvants (including COVID-19 and RSV vaccines) is available here: Prevention and Control of Seasonal Influenza with Vaccines: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices — United States, 2024–25 Influenza Season | MMWR (cdc.gov) (tag Administration of Influenza Vaccines with Other Vaccines) RELATED PAGES Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Guide for considering influenza testing when influenza viruses are circulating in the community Information on interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is circulating Multiplex Assays Authorized for Simultaneous Detection of Influenza Viruses and SARS-CoV-2 by FDA Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Multiplex Assays Authorized for Simultaneous Detection of Influenza Viruses and SARS-CoV-2 by FDA SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 For Everyone JUNE 21, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update June 21, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
To date, there have been 3 human cases associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
A Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current H5N1 bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
All three sporadic cases had direct contact with sick cows.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 118 dairy cow herds in 12 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Posting an appendix to CDC's interim H5N1 bird flu guidance to categorize the degree of risk among people at higher risk of exposure based on specific activities, from highest to lowest risk.
This information will help public health officials and clinicians as they work with farm workers to assess risk and implement monitoring, treatment and testing recommendations.
Looking at the receptor binding profiles of recent avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses to see how well-adapted they are to causing infections in people (compared to birds).
Humans and birds have different types and distributions of receptors to which influenza viruses can bind and cause infection.
The hemagglutinin protein is responsible for the virus binding (or attaching) to host cells, which has to happen in order for infection to occur.
For the receptor binding analysis of A/Texas/37/2024, the hemagglutinin (HA) surface protein of the virus was expressed in the lab and tested for its ability to bind to both human- and avian-type receptors.
Preliminary results from these studies show that the A/Texas/37/2024 hemagglutinin only binds to avian-type receptors, and not to human-type receptors.
This means the virus's HA has not adapted to be able to easily infect people.
How well the A(H5N1) virus HA binds to avian-type, but not to human-type receptors is shown in the graph.
Results from these studies indicate that this virus maintains a preference for avian-type receptors and is not adapting to be able to infect peo...
Show More Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who are at higher risk of infection based on their exposures.
This includes outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram), digital display, and audio (Pandora).
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the look-out for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach has generated more than 3 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then have garnered nearly 400,000 impressions.
Additionally, CDC continues to create additional materials, including fact sheets in K'iche' and Nahuatl, in addition to Spanish.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 690 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 51 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 5, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 Story: Study Shows Ferrets Became Sick with A(H5N1) Virus After Eye Exposure VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 For Everyone JUNE 28, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update June 28, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
To date, there have been three human cases associated with an ongoing multistate outbreak of A(H5N1) in U.S.
dairy cows.
A Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current H5N1 bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
All three sporadic cases had direct contact with sick cows.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 132 dairy cow herds in 12 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Posting the CDC H5N1 Science Agenda that summarizes the key research issues that the agency hopes to address related to the ongoing outbreak of A(H5N1) virus in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
Posting updated recommendations for agricultural fair organizers and people exhibiting animals at agricultural fairs on how to reduce the risk of novel influenza A viruses spreading between animals and people at these events.
These recommendations, which previously focused on reducing the risk of spreading swine-origin flu viruses between pigs and people, have been expanded to include cattle, given the ongoing outbreak of H5N1 bird flu in U.S.
poultry and cattle.
Millions of people in the United States attend agricultural fairs each year, usually in the summer season.
When large numbers of animals and people are in close contact with each other, this raises the risk of disease spread.
Measures to reduce the risk of infection include avoiding animal exposures, which is especially important for people who are at higher risk of developing serious flu complications, and frequent handwashing.
Read the updated documents: Considerations and Information for Fair Exhibitors to Help Prevent Influenza and Considerations and Information for Fair Organizers to Help Prevent Influenza.
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) launched an H5N1 bird flu seroprevalence study of individuals exposed to sick cows.
The study aims to determine if there has been asymptomatic infection with H5N1 bird flu among people who have worked with sick cows, if certain jobs might increase risk of exposure, and how personal protective equipment (PPE) can protect against infection.
CDC is providing technical assistance.
Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who are at higher risk of infection based on their exposures.
This includes outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram), digital display, and audio (Pandora).
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the look-out for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach has generated more than 4.5 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then have garnered 650,000 impressions.
Additionally, CDC continues to create additional materials, including fact sheets in K'iche' and Nahuatl, in addition to Spanish.
Continuing to work with public health laboratories to monitor influenza virus testing.
While 53 people have been tested for A(H5N1) virus associated with the dairy cow outbreak, it is important to look at exposure-based testing in the context of CDC's wider testing for flu in the United States.
Since March 3, 2024, 31,223 specimens have been tested by public health laboratories for flu with results being reported to CDC.
These were specimens submitted to public health laboratories for flu testing and subtyping as part of regular flu surveillance activities.
Public health laboratories report data to CDC each week, and more than 200,000 specimens are tested each year.
These laboratories use a testing protocol that would detect A(H5N1) virus and other novel viruses.
Among those more than 30,000 specimens tested since March 3, 2024, no cases of H5N1 bird flu were detected.
CDC conducts laboratory work on influenza viruses year-round.
Show Text Description Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 780 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 53 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is a rapidly changing situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 12, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 5, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 14, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Health Care Providers OCTOBER 21, 2019 ESPAÑOL Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection PURPOSE Guidance for Clinicians on the Use of RT-PCR and Other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Seasonal Influenza Virus Infection.
Background Molecular assays available for detecting seasonal influenza A and B virus infection include Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), and other nucleic acid amplification tests.
These tests can detect influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in respiratory specimens with high sensitivity and high specificity.
Notably, the detection of influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids by molecular assays does not necessarily indicate detection of viable virus or on-going influenza viral replication.
Available FDA-cleared molecular assays are listed in the Table.
FDA-cleared or FDA-authorized RT-PCR Assays and Other Molecular Assays for Influenza Viruses.
A list of FDA-cleared and FDA-authorized influenza diagnostic tests, including nucleic acid amplification assays , is available.
Rapid molecular assays are molecular influenza diagnostic tests that can detect seasonal influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in upper respiratory tract specimens in approximately 15-30 minutes.
One platform uses isothermal nucleic acid amplification and has high sensitivity, and yields results in 15 minutes or less.
Other platforms use RT-PCR and produce results in approximately 20-30 minutes.
Reported sensitivities of available rapid molecular assays range from 66-100%.
As with other molecular diagnostic tests, if antiviral treatment is clinically indicated (e.g., patients at increased risk of complications, outpatients with progressive or severe disease, hospitalized patients) initiation of empiric antiviral treatment should NOT be withheld from patients with suspected influenza while awaiting testing results during periods of peak influenza activity in the community when the likelihood of influenza is high.
More information about antiviral treatment of influenza is available at Antiviral Drugs, Information for Health Care Professionals.
KEEP READING: Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians Some multiplex molecular assays are able to detect and discriminate between infections with influenza A and B viruses; other tests can also identify specific seasonal influenza A virus subtypes, for example A(H1N1)pdm09, or A(H3N2).
FDA-cleared rapid molecular assays can provide results in 15-30 minutes, and some are CLIA-waived for point-of-care use.
Other molecular assays can provide results in 45-80 minutes or several hours, depending upon the assay.
Some FDA-cleared multi-pathogen molecular assays are available that can detect seasonal influenza A and B viruses and other respiratory pathogens.
How to Use Clinical Decision Making Influenza testing is not needed for all outpatients with signs and symptoms of influenza to make antiviral treatment decisions (See Figure 1, Figure 2).
Once influenza activity has been identified in the community or geographic area, a clinical diagnosis of influenza can be made for outpatients with signs and symptoms consistent with suspected influenza, especially during periods of high influenza activity in the community.
Rapid molecular assays that can produce results in approximately 15-30 minutes, and other molecular assays that can detect influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in approximately 45-80 minutes are available in hospitals (see Table FDA-cleared RT-PCR Assays and Other Molecular Assays for Influenza Viruses).
The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) recommends use of rapid influenza molecular assays over rapid influenza diagnostics tests (RIDTs, for antigen detection) for influenza testing of respiratory specimens of outpatients.
Consult the IDSA Influenza Clinical Practice Guidelines for recommendations on influenza testing and information on interpretation of testing results Clinicians should be aware of the approved clinical specimens for the molecular influenza assay being used.
Molecular influenza testing is recommended for all hospitalized patients with suspected influenza.
If treatment is clinically indicated, antiviral treatment should NOT be withheld from outpatients or hospitalized patients with suspected influenza while awaiting influenza testing results.
Since results from molecular influenza assays may not always be available when initial therapy decisions must be made, antiviral treatment should be started as soon as possible because the greatest clinical benefit is when treatment is initiated as close to illness onset as possible, especially for hospitalized patients and outpatients at high risk of serious complications.
KEEP READING: Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians Influenza Testing of Hospitalized Patients Hospitalized patients with suspected influenza without lower respiratory tract disease should have upper respiratory tract specimens collected for influenza testing by a molecular influenza assay.
The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) recommends use of RT-PCR or other molecular assays for detection of influenza viruses in respiratory specimens of hospitalized patients.
Consult IDSA Influenza Clinical Practice Guidelines for recommendations on influenza testing and information on interpretation of testing results.
More information about antiviral treatment of influenza is available at Antiviral Drugs, Information for Health Care Professionals.
Collection of lower respiratory tract specimens from hospitalized patients with suspected influenza and pneumonia can be considered for influenza testing by RT-PCR and other molecular assays if influenza testing of upper respiratory tract specimens is negative and if positive testing would result in a change in clinical management.
Hospitalized patients with suspected influenza and respiratory failure on mechanical ventilation can have an endotracheal aspirate specimen collected for influenza testing by RT-PCR if a laboratory diagnosis of influenza has not been determined.
Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, if collected for other diagnostic purposes, can also be tested by RT-PCR or other molecular assays for influenza viruses.
Currently, only the CDC RT-PCR assay is FDA-cleared for lower respiratory tract specimens; this test is available only at qualified public health laboratories (see Table FDA-cleared RT-PCR Assays and Other Molecular Assays for Influenza Viruses).
Clinicians may elect to order other FDA-cleared assays for off-label use in evaluating lower respiratory tract specimens.
Performance of these assays for these specimens has not been evaluated by FDA; however, these assays may be more readily accessible at some institutions.
KEEP READING: Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians Detecting Institutional Influenza Outbreaks Molecular assays such as RT-PCR are particularly useful to identify influenza virus infection as a cause of respiratory outbreaks in institutions (e.g., nursing homes, chronic care facilities, and hospitals).
Positive results from one or more ill persons with suspected influenza can support decisions to promptly implement prevention and control measures for influenza outbreaks.
Clinicians should be aware of requirements from their public health authorities regarding prompt notification of any suspected or confirmed institutional influenza outbreaks, and when respiratory specimens should be collected from ill persons and sent to a public health laboratory for laboratory confirmation of influenza.
Interim Guidance for Influenza Outbreak Management in Long-Term Care and Post-Acute Care Facilities is available.
Recommendations for control of institutional influenza outbreaks by the Infectious Diseases Society of America is available.
Detecting Novel Influenza A Cases Molecular assays like RT-PCR identify influenza A and B viruses by targeting conserved gene regions.
Some assays detect influenza A or B but do not specify subtypes, making it impossible to identify novel influenza A viruses.
These novel strains are antigenically and genetically different from current seasonal strains, often originating from zoonotic transmission from avian or swine species to humans.
Some FDA-cleared devices detect influenza A or B viruses and can identify specific influenza A hemagglutinin genes, determining subtypes like A(H1N1)pdm09 or A(H3N2).
These assays identify currently circulating strains and may also detect influenza A viruses without specified subtypes, known as "unsubtypeables." Such unsubtypeables could indicate novel influenza A virus infections, potentially representing new or unusual strains.
Clinicians and laboratorians using molecular assays that are capable of detecting all currently circulating seasonal influenza A virus subtypes, for example A(H1N1)pdm09, or A(H3N2).
and who identify an "unsubtypeable" result (i.e., influenza A with no subtype detected), should contact their state or local public health laboratory immediately for additional testing to determine if the infection is due to a novel influenza A virus.
Clinicians and laboratorians using molecular assays that detect influenza A viruses that do not specifically identify currently circulating seasonal influenza A virus subtypes, for example A(H1N1)pdm09, or A(H3N2), and who suspect novel influenza A virus infection should contact their state or local public health laboratory immediately for additional testing to determine if the infection is due to a novel influenza A virus.
Factors Influencing Results of Molecular Assays Many factors can influence influenza testing results.
Influenza viral shedding in the upper respiratory tract generally declines substantially after 4 days in immunocompetent patients with uncomplicated influenza, although infants and young children may have detectable influenza viruses for longer periods.
Patients with lower respiratory tract disease may have prolonged influenza viral replication in the lower respiratory tract.
Immunosuppressed patients and persons receiving systemic corticosteroids who have lower respiratory tract disease can also have prolonged influenza viral replication in the lower respiratory tract.
Molecular assays can detect influenza viral RNA (positive results) for a longer duration than other influenza tests (e.g., antigen detection – immunofluorescence or rapid influenza diagnostic tests).
Although molecular assays have high sensitivity, negative results can occur in patients with influenza for multiple reasons, so negative molecular assay RT-PCR results may not always exclude a diagnosis of influenza.
If clinical suspicion of influenza is high, antiviral treatment should continue in patients with severe illness or at increased risk for complications while additional respiratory specimens are collected, and further influenza testing is performed.
Factors that can influence influenza testing results are: Time from illness onset to collection of respiratory specimens for testing Respiratory specimens should ideally be collected as early as possible (ideally less than 4 days after illness onset when influenza viral shedding is highest) in persons without lower respiratory tract disease and tested as soon as possible.
Molecular assays may be able to detect influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in respiratory tract specimens longer than other tests can detect influenza viruses (e.g., after 72 hours from illness onset).
Source of respiratory specimens tested and specimen handling.
The best upper respiratory tract specimens to detect influenza viral RNA by RT-PCR and other molecular assays are nasopharyngeal swabs, washes or aspirates; other acceptable specimens are a nasal and/or throat swab.
A swab with a wood shaft should not be used for respiratory specimen collection because it may interfere with RT-PCR and other molecular assays.
Clinicians should be aware of the approved clinical specimens for the molecular assay being used and what type of swabs are recommended for use with the assay as included in the manufacturer's instructions included in the assay.
Hospitalized patients with lower respiratory tract disease may have prolonged lower respiratory tract influenza viral replication compared to the upper respiratory tract.
In patients with lower respiratory tract disease, lower respiratory tract specimens should be collected and tested if influenza is clinically suspected and testing of upper respiratory tract specimens is negative.
For critically ill patients with suspected influenza, even when testing by RT-PCR or other molecular assays is negative, consideration should be given to collecting additional respiratory specimens from multiple sites, especially lower respiratory tract (endotracheal aspirate, or bronchoalveolar lavage – if clinically indicated for other diagnostic purposes) and re-tested for influenza viruses by RT-PCR or other molecular assays.
Antiviral treatment should be continued in such patients pending additional influenza testing.
Time from specimen collection to testing.
If testing is delayed or is done at a facility other than where the patient is hospitalized, specimens should be placed in sterile viral transport media, consistent with test specifications, and refrigerated until transported to the laboratory for testing as soon as possible.
Freezing and thawing should be avoided or minimized to avoid degradation of influenza viruses if viral culture will be performed.
Adherence to manufacturer's instructions, including acceptable specimens, handling, and storage and processing, should be followed to achieve optimum test performance.
Manufacturer's instructions, including acceptable specimens, handling, and storage and processing, should be followed to achieve optimum test performance.
Deviations from recommended procedures may result in false negative results.
Collect respiratory specimens ideally within 4 days of illness onset for optimal influenza detection, especially in patients without lower respiratory tract disease.
Test as soon as possible.
Molecular assays can detect viral RNA longer than other tests, even after 72 hours.
Hospitalized patients with lower respiratory tract disease may have prolonged influenza replication in the lower tract.
Test lower respiratory specimens if influenza is suspected and upper tests are negative.
For critically ill patients, even with negative RT-PCR results, consider additional specimens from multiple sites, particularly the lower respiratory tract, and re-test for influenza.
Continue antiviral treatment while awaiting further results Hospitalized patients with lower respiratory tract disease may have prolonged influenza replication in the lower tract.
Test lower respiratory tract specimens if influenza is suspected and testing of upper respiratory tract specimens are negative.
For critically ill patients, even with negative RT-PCR results, consider additional specimens from multiple sites, particularly the lower respiratory tract, and re-test for influenza.
Continue antiviral treatment while awaiting further results.
Interpreting test results Sensitivities and specificities of RT-PCR and other molecular assays that have been cleared by the FDA for diagnostic use are very high compared to other FDA-cleared assays that use different methods.
However, even with RT-PCR, false negative results can occur due to improper or poor clinical specimen collection or from poor handling of a specimen after collection and before testing.
A negative result can also occur by testing a specimen that was collected when the patient is no longer shedding detectable influenza virus.
False positive results, although rare, can occur (e.g., due to lab contamination or other factors).
Information on interpretation of influenza testing results is also available in the IDSA Influenza Clinical Practice Guidelines .
Negative result A negative result means that there is no evidence of influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in the respiratory specimen tested.
For hospitalized patients, especially for patients with lower respiratory tract disease, if no other etiology is identified and influenza is still clinically suspected, additional specimens should be collected and tested, and antiviral treatment should be initiated or continued.
Positive result A positive result indicates detection of influenza viral RNA or nucleic acids in the respiratory specimen tested, confirming influenza virus infection, but does not necessarily mean infectious virus is present or that the patient is contagious.
A positive result on testing of an upper respiratory tract specimen in a person who recently received intranasal administration of live attenuated influenza virus vaccine (LAIV) may indicate detection of vaccine virus.
LAIV contains influenza virus strains that undergo viral replication in upper respiratory tissues of lower temperature (e.g., nasal passages) than internal body temperature.
Since the nasal passages are infected with live influenza virus vaccine strains during LAIV administration, sampling the nasal passages within a few days after LAIV vaccination can yield positive influenza testing results.
It may be possible to detect LAIV vaccine strains up to 7 days after vaccination, and in rare situations, for longer periods.
Influenza molecular assay interpretation will depend on the individual test that is performed.
For example, a negative result from an influenza molecular assay that only detects influenza A virus and the A(H1N1)pdm09 subtype does not preclude infection with influenza B virus.
Clinicians can consult the package insert for detailed description of each FDA-cleared test and what the result may or may not signify.
Advantages/Disadvantages of Molecular Assays Advantages: Rapid molecular assays and some commercially available molecular assays can produce results in a reasonable time period to inform clinical management (ranging from approximately 15-30 minutes to less than 1.5 hours).
Molecular influenza assays are more sensitive and specific for detecting influenza viruses than other influenza tests (e.g., antigen detection tests such as rapid influenza diagnostic tests or immunofluorescence assays, and viral culture).
Because both sensitivity and specificity of molecular influenza assays to detect influenza viruses are high, the likelihood of a false positive or false negative result is low and therefore, the interpretation of the result is less impacted by the level of influenza activity in the community.
Disadvantages: Results of some RT-PCR and other molecular assays may not be available in a clinically relevant time frame to inform clinical management decisions.
RT-PCR and other molecular influenza assays may not be available in all outpatient or emergency room settings.
For hospitalized patients, these assays are not always available on-site.
Respiratory specimens may need to be sent to a public health laboratory or commercial laboratory for RT-PCR.
Therefore, although RT-PCR assays can yield results in 4-8 hours, the actual time to receive results may be substantially longer.
Most FDA-cleared molecular influenza assays are not approved to test lower respiratory tract specimens.
RT-PCR and other molecular influenza assays are generally more expensive than other influenza tests.
Some molecular influenza assays may not specifically identify all currently circulating influenza A virus subtypes.
Depending on the test, a negative result for one influenza A virus subtype may not preclude infection with another influenza A virus subtype.
Some molecular influenza assays being used are not FDA-cleared and an evaluation has not been performed to assess the accuracy of all available RT-PCR and molecular assays.
A list of FDA-cleared tests is available in Table FDA-cleared RT-PCR Assays and Other Molecular Assays for Influenza Viruses.
Rapid molecular influenza assays may have slightly lower sensitivity to detect influenza viruses compared to other RT-PCR and other molecular assays.
BioMerieux Influenza A and B H1, H1pdm09, H3 Adenovirus, Coronavirus (HKU1, NL63, 229E, OC43), Human Metapneumovirus, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Parainfluenza Virus (1, 2, 3, 4) Respiratory Syncytial Virus and SARS-CoV-2 NPS in VTM4 0.75 h/ Moderate or High BIOFIRE® Respiratory 2.1-EZ (RP2.1- EZ) Panel (EUA)* BioMerieux Influenza A and B H1, H1pdm09, H3 Adenovirus, Coronavirus (HKU1, NL63, 229E, OC43), Human Metapneumovirus, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, MERS-CoV, Parainfluenza Virus (1, 2, 3, 4) Respiratory Syncytial Virus NPS in VTM4 0.75 h/ Waived cobas® eplex Respiratory Pathogen Panel 2 (EUA) Roche Diagnostics Influenza A and B H1, H1pdm09, H3 Adenovirus, Coronavirus (229E, HKU1, NL63, OC43), Human Metapneumovirus, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Parainfluenza (1, 2, 3, 4), Respiratory Syncytial Virus (A, B) and SARS-CoV-2 NPS in VTM4 1.5 h/ Moderate or High QIAstat-Dx Respiratory SARS-CoV-2 Panel Qiagen Influenza A and B H1, H1pdm09, H3 Adenovirus, Coronavirus HKU1, NL63, 229E, and OC43 Human Metapneumovirus A+B, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Parainfluenza Virus 1, 2, 3, 4, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, SARS-CoV-2 NPS in UTM4 1 h/ Moderate BioCode Respiratory Pathogen Panel Applied BioCode Inc.
For a complete list of influenza diagnostic tests available through FDA 501(k) clearance or Emergency Use Authorization, see:  ON THIS PAGE Background How to Use Factors Influencing Results of Molecular Assays Interpreting test results Advantages/Disadvantages of Molecular Assays Table.
FDA-cleared or FDA-authorized RT-PCR Assays and Other Molecular Assays for Influenza Viruses Assist in Medical Office Telephone Evaluation of Patients with Possible Influenza SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
COVID-19 EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About COVID-19 Symptoms People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment How to Protect Yourself and Others Tools and Resources VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Interim Clinical Considerations Vaccine Product Information Clinical Care Quick Reference Infection Control Guidance Containing COVID-19 in Non-U.S.
Healthcare Settings VIEW ALL Public Health Surveillance and Data Analytics Safety Precautions: Cleaning and Disinfecting for COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines Antibody Seroprevalence CDC's Role in Tracking Variants SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group VIEW ALL View All People with Certain Medical Conditions and COVID-19 Risk Factors For Everyone JUNE 11, 2025 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW If you have any medical conditions listed below, you are more likely to get very sick with COVID-19.
This list does not include all conditions.
If you have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 and are ages 50 years or older OR have a condition placing you at higher risk of getting very sick, you are eligible for treatment.
Overview This information is for a general audience.
Healthcare professionals should see Underlying Medical Conditions Associated with Higher Risk for Severe COVID-19 for more detailed information.
Stay Up to Date With COVID-19 Vaccines Staying up to date with COVID-19 vaccines and following preventive measures are especially important if you are older or have one or more health conditions, including those listed below.
Stay Up To Date If you have one or more of the conditions listed below, you are more likely to get very sick from COVID-19 and be hospitalized, need intensive care, require a ventilator to breathe, and/or die.
Risk factors for getting very sick with COVID-19 Older adults are at highest risk of getting very sick from COVID-19.
More than 81% of COVID-19 deaths occur in people over age 65.
The number of deaths among people over age 65 is 97 times higher than among people ages 18-29 years.
Your risk of severe illness from COVID-19 increases as the number of your underlying medical conditions increases.
Some people are at increased risk of getting very sick or dying from COVID-19 because of where they live or work, or because they can’t get health care.
This includes many people from racial and ethnic minority groups and people with disabilities.
Specific information on children and teens People of all ages, including children and teens, can get very sick from COVID-19, especially those with underlying medical conditions.
This includes children and teens with: Medical complexity Genetic, neurologic, or metabolic conditions Congenital heart disease Like adults, children and teens with obesity, diabetes, asthma or chronic lung disease, sickle cell disease, or who are immunocompromised can also be at increased risk for getting very sick from COVID-19.
Check out Stay Up to Date on COVID-19 Vaccines for more information on vaccinating your child.
Parents of children ages 6 months to 17 years should discuss the benefits of vaccination with a healthcare provider.
Learn how CDC develops COVID-19 vaccination recommendations.
Contact Your Healthcare Provider If you have questions about a condition not included on this list or questions on how to manage your condition and protect yourself from COVID-19 and severe illness.
For treatment options.
You must start treatment within 5-7 days from the time your symptoms start.
Treatment can reduce your risk of hospitalization by more than 50% and reduce your risk of death.
You can also visit a Test to Treat location.
Conditions that can increase risk The conditions on this list are in alphabetical order.
They are not in order of risk.
CDC reviewed each medical condition on this list to ensure they met criteria for inclusion.
If there is new evidence, other conditions might be added to the list.
This list does not include all medical conditions that place a person at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19.
Rare medical conditions, including many conditions that mostly affect children, may not be included.
A person with a condition that is not listed may still be at greater risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 than other people.
It is important to talk with your healthcare provider about your risk.
Having the following diseases, conditions, or behaviors can make you more likely to get very sick from COVID-19.
Cancer Treatments for many types of cancer can weaken your body's ability to fight off disease.
Get more information: Cancer COVID-19: What People with Cancer Should Know – National Cancer Institute Cerebrovascular disease This includes stroke, which affects blood flow to the brain.
Get more information: Stroke Chronic kidney disease (at any stage) Get more information: Chronic Kidney Disease National Kidney Foundation: Kidney Disease and COVID-19 Chronic liver disease This includes alcohol-related liver disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, autoimmune hepatitis, and cirrhosis (or scarring of the liver).
Get more information: Liver Disease American Liver Foundation: Your Liver and COVID-19 Chronic lung disease Chronic lung disease can include: Asthma (moderate to severe) Bronchiectasis (thickening of the lungs' airways) Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (chronic lung disease affecting newborns) Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema and chronic bronchitis Damaged or scarred lung tissue (interstitial lung disease including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis) Pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) Pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the lungs) Get more information: COPD Asthma People with Moderate to Severe Asthma American Lung Association: Controlling Chronic Lung Diseases Amid COVID-19 Cystic fibrosis With or without lung or other solid organ transplant (like kidney, liver, intestines, heart, and pancreas).
Get more information: Cystic fibrosis Cystic Fibrosis Foundation: CF and Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dementia or other neurological conditions Get more information: Dementia Parkinson's Disease Diabetes (type 1 or type 2) Get more information: Diabetes American Diabetes Association: How COVID-19 Impacts People with Diabetes Disabilities People with some types of disabilities may be more likely to get very sick from COVID-19 because of underlying medical conditions, living in congregate settings, or systemic health and social inequities, including: People with any type of disability that makes it more difficult to do certain activities or interact with the world around them, including people who need help with self-care or daily activities People with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) People with cerebral palsy People with birth defects People with intellectual and developmental disabilities People with learning disabilities People with spinal cord injuries People with Down syndrome Get more information: People with Disabilities Heart conditions This includes heart failure, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathies, and possibly high blood pressure (hypertension).
Get more information: Heart Disease American Heart Association: COVID-19 NHLBI Information and Resources on COVID-19 Hemoglobin blood disorders Get more information: Sickle Cell Disease Thalassemia HIV infection (human immunodeficiency virus) Get more information: HIV Infection Immunocompromised condition or weakened immune system People who are immunocompromised or are taking medicines that weaken their immune system may not be protected even if they are up to date on their vaccines.
Examples include: People who have cancer and are on chemotherapy People who have had a solid organ transplant and are taking medication to keep their transplant People who use some medicines for a long time, like corticosteroids Primary immunodeficiency Talk with your healthcare provider about what additional precautions may be necessary.
Additionally, people who are moderately or severely immunocompromised may benefit from additional doses of updated COVID-19 vaccine.
Because their immune response following COVID-19 vaccination may differ, specific guidance has been developed.
Get more information: Types of Primary Immune Deficiency Diseases Jeffrey Modell Foundation Immune Deficiency Foundation Primary Immunodeficiency (PI) You Might Be Eligible for Pemivibart (Pemgarda™) People who are moderately or severely immunocompromised, are ages 12 and older, and who weigh at least 88 pounds may be eligible to get Pemivibart (Pemgarda™) , a monoclonal antibody authorized to help protect against COVID-19.
Pemgarda may provide another layer of protection against COVID-19 in addition to protection provided through vaccination and can be given at least 2 weeks after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine.
Pemgarda is not a treatment for COVID-19.
Talk to your healthcare provider to see if Pemgarda is right for you.
CDC is monitoring variants and how commonly they occur to understand if they might affect how well Pemgarda works.
The FDA will provide additional updates to the Emergency Use Authorization materials, as appropriate, if new information emerges.
This is the only preventive option available for COVID-19 for the immunocompromised community, as described above, at the present time.
Mental health conditions Mood disorders including depression and schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
Get more information: National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Shareable Resources on Coping with COVID-19 National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Depression Mood Disorders Overweight and obesity Overweight (defined as a body mass index (BMI) of25 kg/m2 or higher, but under 30 kg/m2), obesity (BMI is 30 kg/m2 or higher, but under 40 kg/m2), or severe obesity (BMI is 40 kg/m2 or higher).
The risk of severe illness from COVID-19 increases sharply with higher BMI.
Get more information: Overweight and Obesity Obesity, Race/Ethnicity, and COVID-19 Obesity Action Coalition: COVID-19 and Obesity Physical inactivity Being physically active is important to being healthy.
Get more information on physical activity and health, physical activity recommendations, how to become more active, and how to create activity-friendly communities: Physical Activity Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, 2nd edition Move Your Way® Strategies to Increase Physical Activity National Center on Health, Physical Activity and Disability – Building Healthy Inclusive Communities Pregnancy Get more information: Women Who Are Pregnant or Breastfeeding (for at least 42 days following end of pregnancy) Smoking - current or former It’s never too late to quit smoking.
Quitting smoking improves your health, regardless of age or how long you have smoked.
You do not have to quit smoking alone.
Find free resources to help you quit and stay quit.
Get more information: How to Quit Smoking Health Benefits of Quitting Smoking Solid organ or blood stem cell transplant Get more information: Transplant Safety COVID-19 Resources for Transplant Community Substance use disorders Such as alcohol, opioid, or cocaine use disorder.
Get more information: Treatment of Substance Use Disorder Substance Use Disorder and Teens Drug Overdose Tuberculosis (TB) Get more information: About TB Public Health Emergencies ON THIS PAGE Overview Conditions that can increase risk RELATED PAGES About COVID-19 Symptoms COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Treatment VIEW ALL COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccines SOURCES PRINT SHARE COVID-19 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is a disease caused by a virus named SARS-CoV-2.
It can be very contagious and spreads quickly.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 5, 2024 For Everyone JULY 5, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update July 5, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “H5N1 bird flu,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Four human cases of A(H5) infection associated with this outbreak in U.S.
dairy cows have been reported.
A The most recent report was on July 3, 2024, and occurred in Colorado.
Like the previous three cases (1 Texas, 2 Michigan, 3 Michigan), this person is a dairy worker who had exposure to sick cows.
Cumulatively, there have been five human cases of A(H5) in the U.S., the first occurred in Colorado during 2022 in a poultry worker with exposure to sick birds.
Based on the information available at this time, CDC’s current H5N1 bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 139 dairy cow herds in 12 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who are at higher risk of infection based on their exposures.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram), digital display, and audio (Pandora).
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the look-out for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach has generated more than 6 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then have garnered 859,000 impressions.
Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 1,390 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 60 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC’s enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
ON THIS PAGE CDC Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 12, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 21, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 12, 2024 For Everyone JULY 12, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
CDC Update July 12, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or “H5N1 bird flu,” in dairy cows and other animals in the United States .
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Four human cases of A(H5) infection associated with this outbreak in U.S.
dairy cows have been reported.
A Based on the information available at this time, CDC’s current H5N1 bird flu human health risk assessment for the U.S.
general public remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 151 dairy cow herds in 12 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and still ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Reporting that despite extensive efforts, CDC has been unable to sequence or isolate virus from the recent human case in Colorado.
Attempts to sequence viral RNA from the Colorado case were unsuccessful most likely due to insufficient virus in the clinical sample.
As a result, CDC has not been able to conclusively determine the neuraminidase (NA) subtype of the virus.
Given that cows on the farm where the patient worked were confirmed positive for A(H5N1) virus infection, it is likely this was an N1 also, but that cannot be conclusively demonstrated.
Virus isolation attempts in eggs and cells were similarly unsuccessful.
Continuing to meet with commercial laboratories to discuss H5 assay licensing agreements and interest in development of commercial H5 tests.
CDC’s Technology Transfer Office and the Influenza Division are actively pursuing establishing licensing agreements with multiple companies, and several have been completed.
Eight of those licenses are currently in place, and several more are in progress.
Posting a flyer that describes and illustrates the procedure for collecting, storing, and shipping conjunctival specimens for testing using the Influenza A(H5) assay.
This resource can help staff at clinics or hospitals and public health departments collect specimens using eye swabs to test for the presence of A(H5) virus.
Posting an NCIRD Bulletin on the updated CDC agricultural fair guidance.
Testing the serological specimens collected as part of the Michigan farmworker investigation is ongoing.
Results are expected by mid-July.
Planning a Clinician Outreach and Communication Activity (COCA) Call on July 16, 2024, that will give an update on the current outbreak in the United States and current CDC surveillance and monitoring efforts.
Speakers will also provide information for clinicians on testing, using antivirals, and infection prevention and control recommendations.
Continuing to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who are at higher risk of infection based on their exposures.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram), digital display, and audio (Pandora).
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the look-out for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach has generated more than 7.6 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then have garnered 1.1 million impressions.
(Table 1) Continuing to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 1,390 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 61 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since March 24, 2024, more than 32,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
Continuing to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC’s enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 5,541,821 Spanish In-Feed 984,823 Instagram English In-Feed 2,139,417 Spanish In-Feed 170,755 Social Totals 8,836,816 Display Fusable English Display 1,879,151 Spanish Display 98,818 Display Totals 1,977,969 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 260,534 Spanish Audio + Display 59,902 Audio Totals 320,436 Language Totals English Language 9,820,923 Spanish Language 1,314,298 Campaign Totals 11,135,221 ON THIS PAGE CDC Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update July 26, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 5, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update June 28, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 5, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Health Care Providers SEPTEMBER 17, 2024 ESPAÑOL Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza PURPOSE Rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) can help to diagnose patients and determine when there is an influenza outbreak in nursing homes and other settings.
RIDTs have limitations that are important for clinicians to understand to properly interpret testing results.
Background Rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) can help in the diagnosis and management of patients who present with signs and symptoms compatible with influenza.
They also can be useful for helping to determine whether outbreaks of respiratory disease, such as in nursing homes and other settings, might be due to influenza.
However, there are limitations of RIDTs that are important for clinicians to understand in order to interpret testing results properly.
KEEP READING: Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests Reliability and Interpretation of Rapid Test Results Proper interpretation of test results is very important for accurate clinical management of patients with suspected influenza.
The reliability of rapid diagnostic tests depends largely on the conditions under which they are used.
Understanding some basic considerations can minimize being misled by false-negative or false-positive results.
Sensitivities of rapid influenza diagnostic tests are low to moderate – approximately 50-70%, which means that false negative results are common (particularly during periods of high influenza activity in the community), and specificities of rapid diagnostic tests for influenza are approximately 95-99%, which means that false positive results are uncommon, when compared with viral culture or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
FDA now requires that all RIDTs achieve 80% or higher sensitivity compared with RT-PCR.
Some RIDTs use an analyzer device to standard the test result and have higher sensitivities to detect influenza virus antigens than RIDTs without analyzer devices.
False-positive results are more likely to occur when influenza prevalence in the community is low, which is generally at the beginning and end of the influenza season or periods in which influenza viruses are not circulating (e.g.
summertime).
Guidance on interpretation of influenza testing results when influenza viruses are not known to be circulating are available.
False-negative results are more likely to occur when influenza prevalence is high in the community, which is typically at the peak of the influenza season.
Guidance on interpretation of influenza testing results when influenza viruses are circulatin are available Minimize False Results Use rapid influenza diagnostic tests with high sensitivity and specificity.
Collect respiratory tract specimens as early in the illness as possible, (within 3-4 days of illness onset).
Follow manufacturer's instructions, including handling of respiratory specimens, as described in the device package insert.
Consider sending respiratory specimens for RT-PCR to confirm results of rapid influenza diagnostic tests especially when community influenza activity is low and the rapid influenza diagnostic test result is positive or when the rapid influenza diagnostic test result is negative but influenza activity in the community is high.
(Contact your local or state health department for information about influenza activity).
Note that rapid influenza molecular assays that can produce results within 30 minutes with much higher sensitivity than RIDTs are available in some clinical settings.
ON THIS PAGE Background Reliability and Interpretation of Rapid Test Results Minimize False Results RELATED PAGES Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection Assist in Medical Office Telephone Evaluation of Patients with Possible Influenza Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests (RIDTs) VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Health Care Providers DECEMBER 8, 2023 ESPAÑOL Assist in Medical Office Telephone Evaluation of Patients with Possible Influenza for Health Care Settings KEY POINTS The flow chart is designed to be used when influenza viruses are circulating in the community.
This tool may help medical office staff triage calls from patients with flu-like symptoms and identify when it might be appropriate to initiate antiviral treatment before an office visit.
Strategies Patient triage or prescribing of prescription medicines should be done under the direction of a licensed physician or other licensed provider.
More information is available at Influenza Antiviral Medications.
Algorithm to Assist in Medical Office Telephone Evaluation of Patients with Possible Influenza Download This flow chart is designed to be used when influenza viruses are circulating in the community.
It may help medical office staff assess calls from patients and when it might be appropriate to start antiviral treatment before an office visit.
Show Text Description * Flu-like symptoms KEEP READING: Signs and Symptoms of Flu ** High-risk patients KEEP READING: People at Increased Risk for Flu Complications RELATED PAGES Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update July 26, 2024 For Everyone JULY 26, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's Spotlight, we confirm three additional cases of H5 bird flu in poultry farm workers at a second poultry farm in Colorado, for a total of 13 human cases since April 2024.
All three people were working to depopulate infected poultry as part of a culling at a commercial egg layer operation that had reported an outbreak of H5 bird flu among poultry.
All three people have mild illness and have been offered antiviral medication.
Today's edition includes details about CDC's genetic sequence analysis of the virus obtained from the sixth human case of H5N1 bird flu that was reported in association with exposure to infected poultry at a poultry farm in Colorado on July 19th.
The findings are reassuring, showing it is closely related to the first human case from Colorado and that it does not have changes in the neuraminidase associated with antiviral resistance.
The sequence was uploaded to public databases so that researchers in the United States and around the world can analyze it.
Finally, we include information about Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) issued for the flu antiviral drug, oseltamivir, and describe a new MMWR Notes from the Field report.
CDC Update July 26, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 13 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1)-infected poultry.
A BThis includes three additional cases in Colorado that were confirmed by CDC this week.
The three new cases were in poultry workers who were working directly with infected poultry at a commercial egg layer operation that had reported an outbreak of H5 bird flu among poultry.
Similar to previous cases, all of the people have mild illness.
Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current assessment is that the risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 171 dairy cow herds in 13 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 35 commercial flocks and 19 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.37 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Colorado Investigation Update More than 600 workers performing depopulation activities on three poultry farms have been screened for symptoms.
Of these, 103 had symptoms and were tested, and nine were positive for influenza A(H5).
Other respiratory viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-19) were also detected among symptomatic workers.
Symptom onset began within two-three days and peaked within five days after the start of depopulation.
Among nine workers who tested positive for avian influenza A(H5), all reported mild symptoms (predominantly conjunctivitis) and were tested within three days of symptom onset.
All cases have been provided oseltamivir and are recovering.
More in-depth summaries of the investigation are in process with Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
Laboratory Update CDC sequencing of the virus from the sixth human case reported from Colorado confirms the neuraminidase (the N in the subtype) is an N1 and the virus is a HPAI A(H5N1) virus from clade 2.3.4.4b.
Six of the eight influenza virus gene segments (the majority of the flu genome) were successfully sequenced.
The sequences are closely related to the virus sequence described last week, A/Colorado/109/2024, as well as viruses detected in recent poultry outbreaks and infected dairy cattle herds made available from USDA.
The sequence maintains primarily avian genetic characteristics and lacks changes that would make the virus better adapted to infect or spread among humans.
The influenza virus sequence contains a change at PB2 M631L – which is the same marker of mammalian adaptation identified in more than 99% of dairy cow sequences and that was also identified in the first Michigan human case.
The influenza virus sequence does NOT have the PB2 E627K change that was seen in the virus from the case in Texas but not subsequent human viruses.
That change is known to be associated with viral adaptation to mammalian hosts and has been found before in people and other mammals, but with no evidence of onward spread among people.
Furthermore, there are no markers known to be associated with influenza antiviral resistance to neuraminidase-inhibitors found in the virus sequence from the patient's specimen.
The genetic sequences for the virus from the patient (A/Colorado/134/2024) were posted to two sequence databases: GISAID (EPI_ISL_19280426) and GenBank (PQ060139).
Influenza virus isolates and sequences were only successfully generated from two of the six human cases from the first poultry farm in Colorado.
Overall, the genetic analysis of this HPAI A(H5N1) virus in Colorado supports CDC's conclusion that the human health risk currently remains low.
CDC also continues to meet with commercial laboratories to discuss H5 assay licensing agreements and interest in development of commercial H5 tests.
CDC's Technology Transfer Office and the Influenza Division are actively pursuing establishing licensing agreements with multiple companies, and several have been completed.
Clinical Update On July 19, 2024, CDC issued Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for the flu antiviral drug, oseltamivir (generic for brand name drug Tamiflu®), for treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) of pandemic influenza A viruses and novel influenza A viruses with pandemic potential.
EUI provide information about emergency use of FDA-approved medical products that differ from or go beyond the information provided in the FDA-approved labeling (package insert).
CDC-issued oseltamivir EUI fact sheets for health care providers and recipients and caregivers are available on CDC's website: Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir.
Partnership and Support Update CDC is in close contact with a CDC multidisciplinary bilingual field team deployed to support Colorado's response to ongoing poultry outbreaks.
The team includes epidemiologists, veterinarians, clinicians and an industrial hygienist.
Support includes accompanying Colorado health officials during daily visits to the affected farm to monitor workers for symptoms, test symptomatic persons, dispense antiviral treatment, follow-up with persons testing positive to collect additional information, and assess use of personal protective equipment.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support strategies to maximize protection of farm workers, who are at higher risk of infection based on their exposures.
This includes specific outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram), digital display, and audio (Pandora).
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the look-out for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach generated more than 10.6 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then garnered nearly 1.7 million impressions.
(Table 1) Surveillance Update On Friday, July 26, 2024, CDC posted updated data on its website regarding the number of confirmed human cases of H5 bird flu and the number of people who have been monitored and tested in the United States since the beginning of the current outbreaks in dairy cows and other animals in 2024.
Data are provided on the number of specimens tested at public health labs since February 25, 2024, using a test that would detect H5 bird flu or other novel influenza viruses, if they were present.
Targeted H5 bird flu surveillance data on people monitored, people tested, and human cases is provided since March 24, 2024, the week that the first H5 detections in dairy cows were reported.
The updated data are featured on CDC's H5 bird flu current situation page as well as the monitoring for H5 in people page.
On the latter page, in addition to the overall numbers of people monitored and tested, data are available broken down by exposure to dairy cows, or by exposure to birds and other animals, including poultry (non-dairy cow sources).
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,100 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 200 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 36,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlights On July 25, 2024, CDC published a MMWR Notes from the Field report that describes the public health efforts in Michigan that led to the identification of two different cases of influenza A (H5N1) among dairy workers – the second and third such cases in the United States, and first with respiratory virus infection.
Investigators worked with farm operators to gather lists of people potentially exposed to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus on impacted dairy and poultry farms.
Those people were enrolled into symptom monitoring and offered testing for influenza if experiencing signs or symptoms of illness and provided antiviral medications.
Read the report: Notes from the Field: Health Monitoring, Testing, and Case Identification Among Persons Exposed to Influenza A(H5N1) — Michigan, 2024 CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 7,772,787 Spanish In-Feed 1,452,370 Instagram English In-Feed 2,838,409 Spanish In-Feed 239,603 Social Totals 12,301,672 Display Fusable English Display 2,428,141 Spanish Display 266,608 Display Totals 2,693,805 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 1,273,348 Spanish Audio + Display 428,191 Audio Totals 1,701,539 Language Totals English Language 14,312,685 Spanish Language 2,386,772 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 16,697,016 ON THIS PAGE What to Know CDC Update Publication Highlights CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 2, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 12, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Health Care Providers SEPTEMBER 17, 2024 ESPAÑOL Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests (RIDTs) PURPOSE This table provides a list of available tests by manufacturer that offer results in 10-15 minutes and differentiate between influenza A and B.
Table: Available FDA-Cleared Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests (Antigen Detection Only) These tests provide results in 10-15 minutes and differentiate between influenza A and B Manufacturer Product Platform/Instrument Approved Specimens2 CLIA Waived3 Abbott Binax Now Influenza A & B Card 2 DIGIVALTM NPS, NS direct Yes Becton Dickinson & Co.
BD Veritor™ Flu A + B BD Veritor Reader NPS, NS direct Yes Becton Dickinson & Co.
BD Veritor™ Flu A + B BD Veritor Plus Analyzer NPS, NS direct Yes Quidel Corp.
Sofia® Influenza A + B FIA Sofia FIA Analyzer NS, NPS, NPA, NPW direct, NP, NPA, NPW in VTM Yes Quidel Corp.
Sofia® Influenza A + B FIA Sofia 2 FIA Analyzer NS, NPS, NPA, NPW direct, NP, NPA, NPW in VTM Yes Quidel Corp.
QuickVue® Influenza A + B N/A NPS, NS direct Yes Princeton BioMeditech Corp.
BioSign® Flu A & B LABSCO Advantage Flu A & B LifeSign LLC Status Flu A & B OraSure QuickFlu Rapid A + B Polymedco Poly stat Flu A & B Sekisui Diagnostics OSOM® ULTRA Flu A & B Meridian BioScience ImmunoCard STAT Flu A&B McKesson Consult Diagnostics Influenza A&B N/A NS, NPS direct (waived) NPA, NPW (not waived) Yes Becton Dickinson & Co.
BD Veritor™ Flu A + B BD Veritor Reader NPW, NA, NPS in VTM No Becton Dickinson & Co.
BD Veritor™ Flu A + B BD Veritor Plus Analyzer NPW, NA, NPS in VTM No Remel/Thermo Fisher XPECT™ Flu A & B N/A Nasal wash No Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC Acucy Influenza A&B Test The Acucy System NPS, NS direct Yes Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC OSOM Ultra Plus Flu A&B Test N/A NPS, NPA, NPW, NS Yes Access Bio, Inc.
CareStart Flu A&B Plus N/A NPS No Available FDA cleared tests as of August 2020.
List may not include all available test kits approved by the FDA.
Approved respiratory specimens according to manufacturer’s package insert.
Ref:  A = aspirate FDA = U.S.
Food and Drug Administration N = nasal N/A = RIDT does not use analyzer device NP = nasopharyngeal S = swab VTM = viral transport media W = wash Disclaimer: Use of trade names or commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the Department of Health and Human Services.
RELATED PAGES Clinical Testing and Diagnosis Interpretation of influenza testing results when virus is not circulating for Health Care Settings Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection Assist in Medical Office Telephone Evaluation of Patients with Possible Influenza Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) About Influenza Antiviral Medications SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Information for Tuberculosis Programs EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About Tuberculosis Program Funding ARPE eDOT Toolkit Toolkit TB Program Evaluation Tuberculosis Modeling and Costs Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources Emergencies and Disasters NTIP VIEW ALL Related Topics: Tuberculosis (TB) | TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings View All Public Health APRIL 2, 2024 Tuberculosis Information for Emergencies and Disasters WHAT TO KNOW Emergencies and disasters can make efforts to help TB patients continue their treatment difficult.
TB programs work to ensure that people who are receiving treatment for TB are able to continue their treatment, even during an emergency or disaster.
The importance of TB treatment TB programs help patients continue treatment.‎ If you are currently taking treatment for TB and your medical visits have been affected by an emergency or disaster, contact your state or local TB program.
State TB Programs It is very important that people who have tuberculosis (TB) disease receive treatment, take the medicine exactly as prescribed by their health care provider, and finish the medicine.
If they stop taking the medicine too soon, they can become sick again.
If they do not take the medicine correctly, the TB bacteria that are still alive may become resistant to those drugs.
TB that is resistant to drugs is harder to treat.
TB program preparedness TB programs can help people who are receiving treatment for TB are able to continue their treatment, even if they are displaced temporarily or permanently by an emergency or disaster or if an emergency or disaster impacts routine health care services.
Ensuring continuity of TB treatment during emergencies and disasters should be included as part of public health emergency preparedness planning.
In the event of an emergency or disaster, TB programs should: Make sure contact information for patients is current, and staff can reach patients with updates and information, even if patients evacuate to other locations.
Provide contact information of TB program personnel to patients.
Communicate and changes or updates in service to community partners.
Consider providing additional medications to patients if health department operations are likely to be affected.
If policies and procedures are in place, consider alternative treatment delivery methods, such as video directly observed therapy (vDOT).
Preventing TB transmission in shelters In response to an emergency or disaster, communities may open emergency or temporary shelters.
Existing shelters may also expand their hours.
Shelter managers, staff, and clients should be aware of TB and ways to prevent TB transmission.
The following messages may be helpful reminders for organizations and agencies involved in sheltering activities.
TB is spread through the air from one person to another.
The TB germs are put into the air when a person with active TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, speaks, or sings.
Symptoms of TB disease may include a cough that last 3 weeks or longer, chest pain, weight loss, and night sweats.
If anyone in your shelter has symptoms of TB disease, contact the state or local TB program immediately.
If possible, use respiratory control measures to reduce the risk of transmission.
Encourage all shelter staff, volunteers, or clients who are coughing to wear a mask.
Provide disposable paper or cloth surgical masks to anyone with symtpoms of TB disease.
Separate people who are coughing until they can receive medical evaluation to rule out TB disease.
Encourage staff and volunteers who are coughing to stay home.
Facilities should consult with their local health department about the necessity and frequency of TB screening for staff, volunteers, and clients.
KEEP READING: Tuberculosis Guidance for Hurricane Workers and Evacuees Resources State Tuberculosis Programs Recommendations for Use of Video Directly Observed Therapy During Tuberculosis Treatment — United States, 2023 Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A Toolkit for Tuberculosis Programs ON THIS PAGE The importance of TB treatment TB program preparedness Preventing TB transmission in shelters Resources RELATED PAGES Hurricane Workers and Evacuees Uniting for Ukraine Communication Resources NTIP About Tuberculosis Program Funding VIEW ALL Information for Tuberculosis Programs Hurricane Workers and Evacuees SOURCES PRINT SHARE Information for Tuberculosis Programs CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S.
tuberculosis (TB) programs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone NCIRD Divisions and Offices About NCIRD Bulletin Investigations NCIRD PRESS Career Opportunities VIEW ALL View All Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Bulletin For Everyone JAN.
3, 2025 ABOUT The NCIRD Bulletin highlights recent trends and summarizes important updates from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD).
In addition, the NCIRD Bulletin shares timely information about CDC's role, information, and action related to certain public health issues and situations.
Read these Bulletins to stay informed about developments related to infectious respiratory illnesses and vaccine-preventable diseases.
What's New COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Among Older Adults Are Up from Last Season CDC data show higher COVID-19 vaccination rates in adults 75 and older.
26, 2024 CDC Releases New In-Season Estimates for COVID-19 and RSV CDC's weekly estimates show how COVID-19 and RSV affect people across the U.S.
19, 2024 Reduce Your Risk from Respiratory Viruses This Holiday Season Respiratory virus season is here.
Learn about actions we can all take to make it a healthier one.
20, 2024 SARS-CoV-2 Variant XEC Increases as KP.3.1.1 Slows Many variants came from the JN.1 lineage of SARS-CoV-2.
2024–2025 COVID-19 vaccine should work NOV.
1, 2024 CDC Updates Vaccine Recommendations ACIP reviewed vaccine data and voted to update vaccine recommendations for COVID-19 and Pneumococcal...
29, 2024 2024-2025 Respiratory Disease Season Outlook – October Update CDC expects similar or fewer respiratory hospitalizations.
Vaccination can play a key role to preven OCT.
25, 2024 Monitoring Respiratory Illnesses Informs Decision Making Learn more about how CDC tracks respiratory illness trends for flu, COVID-19, and RSV.
21, 2024 Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections Have Been Increasing Bacterial infection increase is especially affecting young children, causing pneumonia.
18, 2024 Immunization Can Prevent Severe Respiratory Illness and Death Immunization is a core prevention strategy to lower risk from respiratory viruses.
11, 2024 Protecting infants and children from COVID-19-associated hospitalization Infants under 6 months face highest risk of COVID-19 hospitalization among pediatric groups.
2, 2024 Getting Your Immunizations for the 2024-2025 Fall and Winter Virus Season September and October are good times to get vaccinated, but you can still get vaccinated later in t SEPT.
27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE NCIRD Information on NCIRD's mission, work, and organizational structure.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Influenza (Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Flu Complications and People at Higher Risk Prevention Vaccine Basics Diagnosis Flu Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Guidance Clinical Signs and Symptoms of Influenza Guidance for Influenza Vaccination Vaccine Product Information Clinical Testing and Diagnosis About Influenza Antiviral Medications Infection Control Guidance Laboratory Testing VIEW ALL Public Health How CDC Classifies Flu Severity each Season in the United States Information for Laboratories Understanding Influenza Viruses WHO Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza Viral Genomic Sequencing Infrastructure VIEW ALL Related Topics: Avian Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All People at Increased Risk for Flu Complications For Everyone SEPT.
11, 2024 ESPAÑOL WHAT TO KNOW Some people are at higher risk of developing serious complications from flu.
If you are at higher risk, flu vaccination is especially important.
When you get vaccinated, you reduce your risk of getting sick with flu and possibly being hospitalized or dying from flu.
CDC recommends prompt flu antiviral treatment for people at higher risk of serious flu complications who have flu infection or suspected flu infection.
People with a weakened immune system due to disease (such as people with HIV or AIDS, or some cancers such as leukemia) or medications (such as those receiving chemotherapy or radiation treatment for cancer, or persons with chronic conditions requiring chronic corticosteroids or other drugs that suppress the immune system) People who have had a stroke People with certain disabilities—especially those who may have trouble with muscle function, lung function, or difficulty coughing, swallowing, or clearing fluids from their airways.
Other people at higher risk from flu: Pregnant women, including up to 2 weeks after the end of pregnancy People who live in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities People from certain racial and ethnic minority groups are at increased risk for hospitalization with flu, including non-Hispanic Black persons, Hispanic or Latino persons, and American Indian or Alaska Native persons Flu and people with chronic conditions Adults with certain chronic conditions are at higher risk of developing serious complications from flu.
In fact, during recent flu seasons, 9 out of 10 people hospitalized with flu had at least one underlying health condition – that's why getting an annual flu vaccine is especially important for people with certain chronic health conditions A flu vaccine reduces the risk of getting sick with flu.
For people with certain chronic health conditions a flu vaccine has been shown to reduce the risk of flu-related worsening of chronic conditions and prevent flu-associated hospitalization.
Prevention Flu Vaccination is the Best Protection The best way to prevent flu and its potentially serious complications is for everyone 6 months and older to get a flu vaccine every year.
It is especially important for people who are at higher risk of developing serious flu complications to be vaccinated each year.
Other Preventive Actions In addition to getting a flu vaccine, people with asthma should take the same everyday preventive actions CDC recommends for everyone, including avoiding people who are sick, covering coughs, and washing hands often.
This also can include taking steps for cleaner air and hygiene practices like cleaning frequently touched surfaces.
More information is available about core and additional prevention strategies.
Treatment CDC recommends early flu antiviral treatment for people who have flu or suspected flu who are at higher risk of serious flu complications.
KEEP READING Treating Flu with Antiviral Drugs Resources Flu Information for Parents with Young Children.
Advice for parents who want to keep their children healthy.
Information for Health Professionals.
Information about vaccination, infection control, prevention, treatment, and diagnosis of seasonal flu for public health and health care professionals.
ON THIS PAGE People at increased risk Flu and people with chronic conditions Prevention Resources RELATED PAGES Flu and Children Flu and People 65 Years and Older Flu and People with Asthma Flu and People with Heart Disease or History of Stroke Flu and People with Diabetes VIEW ALL Influenza (Flu) Flu and Children SOURCES PRINT SHARE Influenza (Flu) Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 2, 2024 For Everyone AUG.
2, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's update, CDC shares information about two new investments the agency announced this week to protect and improve farmworker health.
This update also provides a summary of new genetic sequencing data from the viruses that caused three human cases in Colorado poultry workers that were confirmed on July 25, 2024.
Also included is an update on seroprevalence studies in Colorado and Michigan.
Situation Update August 2, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 13 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1)-infected poultry.
A B Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current assessment is that the risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 172 dairy cow herds in 13 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 35 commercial flocks and 20 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.37 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update CDC successfully sequenced full genomes of the viruses from the three human cases reported from the second poultry farm in Colorado.
These cases occurred in workers exposed to H5N1-infected poultry.
Sequencing of these viruses confirms the neuraminidase (the N in the subtype) for each of these three viruses is an N1, and the viruses are a HPAI A(H5N1) virus from clade 2.3.4.4b.
The sequences are closely related to viruses detected in recent poultry outbreaks and infected dairy cattle herds and made available from USDA.
The sequences maintain primarily avian genetic characteristics and lack changes that would make them better adapted to spread among humans.
They also do not contain any changes suggesting an increase in disease severity or adaptation to human infection or spread.
Furthermore, there are no markers known to be associated with influenza antiviral resistance.
The genetic sequences for the viruses were publicly posted.
C Overall, the genetic analysis of this HPAI A(H5N1) virus in Colorado supports CDC's conclusion that the human health risk currently remains low.
On the laboratory front, CDC also continues to meet with commercial laboratories to discuss H5 assay licensing agreements and interest in development of commercial H5 tests.
CDC's Technology Transfer Office and the Influenza Division are actively pursuing establishing licensing agreements with multiple companies, and several have been completed.
Partnership and Support Update CDC announced two new investments to protect the health of farmworkers at heightened risk of exposure to H5N1 bird flu.
First, $5 million will go to partner organizations, including the National Center for Farmworker Health, to support overall outreach and education efforts focused on farmworker safety and health.
Second, a separate $5 million investment will be used to offer seasonal flu vaccines to U.S.
livestock, dairy, and poultry workers to control and prevent seasonal flu among this group.
Preventing seasonal flu infection and severe disease outcomes is good public health practice and something that CDC focuses on each year.
Reducing barriers to seasonal flu vaccine and increasing uptake in livestock, dairy, and poultry workers protects people from severe illness, which can also help reduce strain on rural health care systems in the fall and winter when more people are likely to have respiratory illnesses.
Fewer people who get the seasonal flu in the fall and winter also will help public health better detect if a person is sick with avian flu.
Although the seasonal flu vaccine will not prevent infection from bird flu, it can reduce the prevalence and severity of seasonal flu and might reduce the very rare risk of coinfection with a human seasonal virus and an avian virus at the same time, and the theoretical risk that reassortment between the two could result in a new virus.
Such dual infections, while very rare, could theoretically result in genetic reassortment of the two different influenza A viruses and lead to a new influenza A virus that has a different combination of genes, and which could pose a significant public health concern.
CDC also continues to partner with states that are conducting seroprevalence studies.
CDC is supporting a Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment seroprevalence study of dairy workers exposed to H5N1 infected cattle that began this week.
CDC will support interviews, specimen collection and testing from multiple farms through early August.
The preliminary Michigan results were already shared on July 19 (CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024), but they are continuing to enroll additional nearby farms in Michigan.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers.
This includes specific outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Since May 30, when English assets launched, Meta outreach generated about 16.6 million impressions.
Spanish Meta assets launched on June 6, and since then garnered about 3.2 million impressions.
(Table 1) Surveillance Update CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,300 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 230 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 38,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 8,992,024 Spanish In-Feed 1,715,261 Instagram English In-Feed 3,172,611 Spanish In-Feed 269,433 Social Totals 14,149,329 Display Fusable English Display 1,953,386 Spanish Display 379,283 Display Totals 3,168,715 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 1,700,646 Spanish Audio + Display 862,373 Audio Totals 2,563,019 Language Totals English Language 16,618,667 Spanish Language 3,226,350 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 20,681,063 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update July 26, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update July 26, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 For Everyone AUG.
9, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's update, CDC shares information about a new report summarizing the results of an Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) of an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from a human case in Texas.
This update also provides key findings from a new CDC laboratory study of the effects of the avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from a human case in Michigan on ferrets, a model used to assess potential impact on people.
Situation Update August 9, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 13 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected poultry12.
Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current assessment is that the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 189 dairy cow herds in 13 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 35 commercial flocks and 21 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.68 million birds affected.
The assessment was performed using the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool, an instrument developed by CDC and external influenza experts to evaluate the pandemic potential of influenza A viruses that currently circulate in animals but not in humans.
The future pandemic potential of a virus is different from the immediate population or individual health risk, which is unchanged and remains low.
Findings of IRATs are used to inform preparedness planning.
This most recent IRAT score validates the proactive, coordinated U.S.
government response.
Systematic comparisons of data related to this avian influenza A(H5N1) virus using the IRAT to data from other influenza A viruses has scored this virus's future pandemic potential as "moderate" based on information through June 26, 2024.
This is similar to previous assessments of earlier avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
This analysis, which includes data through June 26, 2024, did not include the 10 human infections that occurred in Colorado in July following exposure to infected poultry (9 cases) and dairy cows (1 case).
All were associated with mild illness and a majority experienced conjunctivitis.
CDC completed the report to inform ongoing preparedness efforts.
The IRAT uses expert opinion to evaluate the potential for a representative novel influenza virus to gain the ability for person-to-person spread and the resulting potential public health impact if that were to happen, compared to that of other viruses evaluated in past IRAT reports.
The IRAT does not predict future pandemics.
The IRAT assesses potential pandemic risk based on two different questions related to "emergence" and "public health impact:" "Emergence:" What is the risk that a virus not currently circulating in the human population has potential for sustained human-to-human transmission?
"Public health impact:" If the virus were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission, what is the risk that a virus not currently circulating in the human population has the potential for significant impact on public health?
Earlier IRATs were conducted in March 2022 using A/American wigeon/South Carolina/AH0195145/2021 and again in April 2023 using A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022.
This means that the future pandemic potential risk from these viruses remains similar and is classified as "moderate" risk.
More context on an IRAT is available here.
Laboratory Update CDC is posting summary results of a new laboratory study using a ferret animal model.
The study looked at disease severity and spread of an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from a human case in Michigan in ferrets.
Ferrets are commonly used as a model for humans in the study of influenza viruses because they are susceptible to influenza virus infection and display clinical signs of infection shared by humans.
The study showed that A/Michigan/90/2024 caused less severe disease in ferrets than an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from the human case in Texas (A/Texas/37/2024).
While the A/Texas virus was deadly in all infected ferrets, none of the ferrets infected with the A/Michigan virus died or had to be euthanized because of severe illness.
This finding is important because A/Michigan/90/2024 is more similar to currently circulating viruses than A/Texas/372024.
The two viruses showed similar, less-than-efficient capacity to spread from ferret to ferret by respiratory droplets.
CDC scientists used two models to assess the ability of A/Michigan/90/2024 to spread between ferrets: a "direct contact model" and a "respiratory droplet model." In the direct contact model, infected and healthy ferrets are placed in the same enclosure.
In the respiratory droplet model, infected and healthy ferrets are placed in adjacent enclosures that share the same air.
The results were similar to those of a previous CDC study in ferrets of the A/Texas/372024 virus from the human case in Texas that was reported on April 1, 2024.
CDC also continues to meet with commercial laboratories to discuss H5 assay licensing agreements and interest in development of commercial H5 tests.
CDC's Technology Transfer Office and the Influenza Division are actively pursuing licensing agreements with multiple companies, and several have been completed.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers.
This includes specific outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
Surveillance Update CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,500 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 230 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 39,500 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlights An August 7, 2024, Letter to the Editor co-authored by CDC and Michigan local public health and state health officials in the New England Journal of Medicine provides a detailed description of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infection in two dairy farm workers in Michigan, including their symptoms, course of illness, treatment, and genetic analysis of the avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses from the two farm workers.
One of the workers developed eye soreness consistent with conjunctivitis and the other experienced more typical symptoms of acute respiratory illness associated with influenza virus infection, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
The authors note that the infections, which occurred on separate farms, highlight the ongoing risk of transmission through direct and close exposure to raw milk and secretions from infected dairy cows.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 10,263,186 Spanish In-Feed 1,983,660 Instagram English In-Feed 3,524,892 Spanish In-Feed 299,521 Social Totals 16,071,259 Display Fusable English Display 3,523,544 Spanish Display 463,154 Display Totals 3,986,698 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 2,418,057 Spanish Audio + Display 1,032,923 Audio Totals 3,450,980 Language Totals English Language 19,729,679 Spanish Language 3,779,258 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 23,508,937 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update Publication Highlights CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 2, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update July 26, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 2, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Notes from the Field: Health Monitoring, Testing, and Case Identification Among Persons Exposed to Influenza A(H5N1) — Michigan, 2024 Weekly / July 25, 2024 / 73(29);656–658 Print Joseph Coyle, MPH1; Natasha Bagdasarian, MD1; Seth Eckel, MPH1; Jeremy Kuo, MPH1; Mary Grace Stobierski, DVM1; James Barber, MPH1; Meghan Weinberg, PhD1; Fatema Mamou, MPH1; Sarah Lyon-Callo, PhD1; Michigan Local Health Departments; Bureau of Laboratories; Bureau of Infectious Disease Prevention Investigation Team (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus has been detected in wild birds and mammals, poultry, and commercial dairy facilities in the United States.
A human case in a Texas dairy worker was reported in April 2024.
What is added by this report?
As of May 23, 2024, Michigan had the largest number of affected dairy and poultry facilities linked to the HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak.
Active symptom monitoring and testing of exposed workers led to detection of the second and third known dairy-associated HPAI A(H5N1) cases in 2024.
What are the implications for public health practice?
The current risk to the public from HPAI A(H5N1) viruses is low; however, continued symptom monitoring and testing are critical to characterizing genetic or epidemiological changes that might alter the risk assessment.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (24) Blogs (1) Policy documents (1) X (18) Facebook (1) Mendeley (10) 1 1 Total citation 1 Recent citation n/a Field Citation Ratio n/a Relative Citation Ratio Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF Top On March 25, 2024, a Texas dairy farm detected highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus in cows.
The outbreak widely spread after interstate cow movement.
During March 25–June 17, animals at a total of 102 dairy farms in 12 states, 24 commercial poultry flocks in five states, and multiple backyard flocks tested positive for HPAI A(H5N1) (1,2).
This report describes response activities in Michigan, which led to detection of the second and third human cases related to the 2024 HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak.
The activity was reviewed by the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law, state, and departmental policy.* Top Investigation and Outcomes Infected cows from Texas resulted in introduction of HPAI A(H5N1) virus in a Michigan dairy, detected on March 29.
As of May 29, a total of 23 Michigan dairies in 10 counties are known to be affected (1).
Michigan’s first affected commercial poultry facility was confirmed on April 2; currently, seven affected poultry facilities in four counties have been identified (2).
HPAI A(H5N1) virus has also been detected in a backyard flock, pigeons, foxes, cats, opossums, and a racoon in Michigan.
Whole genome sequencing results suggest that, since March 2024, all sequenced isolates have ancestral Texas origins (3).
Monitoring of Dairy Workers Among the 23 affected dairies, 306 persons exposed to affected cows were identified.
Lists of exposed persons were obtained by public health officials from 20 (87%) affected dairies.
Workers at 12 (60%) of those dairies were enrolled in text-based daily symptom monitoring,† and workers at eight (40%) farms were monitored through a farm point of contact.
Twenty (6.5%) exposed workers reported symptoms and were tested for influenza A(H5) virus infection.
Among persons who received real-time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction testing,§ one received a positive test result from a conjunctival swab, similar to the case of HPAI A(H5N1) reported from a dairy worker in Texas (4).
Before the onset of mild unilateral conjunctivitis, the patient reported direct ocular exposure to raw, unpasteurized milk from an affected cow.
A second worker from a different dairy farm experienced respiratory symptoms after close contact with sick cows and received a positive A(H5) virus test result from a nasopharyngeal swab.
In both instances, public health officials rapidly collected patient specimens, which tested positive for HPAI A(H5N1).
Neither worker was severely ill, neither required hospitalization, and no household or work contacts reported being ill.
Both workers wore some personal protective equipment (PPE), but neither wore a mask or respirator.
Monitoring of Poultry Workers Among seven affected commercial poultry facilities, 857 persons exposed to affected birds were identified.
Lists of exposed persons were obtained from all facilities.
Workers from four facilities were directly enrolled in text-based daily symptom monitoring, and workers from three facilities were monitored through a farm point of contact who reported results to public health officials.
Eighteen (2.1%) symptomatic persons were identified and tested; all test results were negative for influenza A(H5).
Monitoring of Other Exposed Persons Federal and state employees who responded to affected farms were also observed for symptoms, as were persons with exposure to HPAI A(H5N1) virus–infected animals (domestic or wild) or humans.
Overall, 125 such persons were monitored, and 15 (12%) reported symptoms, 14 of whom received negative influenza A(H5) test results.
Top Preliminary Conclusions and Actions Among 1,288 Michigan residents who were monitored for signs and symptoms after potential HPAI A(H5N1) virus exposure, 53 (4.1%) reported signs and symptoms, 52 of whom received testing for influenza A(H5).
Although the risk for HPAI A(H5N1) virus to the public remains low, novel influenza A viruses such as A(H5N1) have pandemic potential.
Therefore, it is critical to notify persons with exposure to infected animals, provide education and access to PPE,¶ monitor signs and symptoms, test specimens collected from any exposed person with signs and symptoms, and make antivirals available to symptomatic persons as soon as possible.** Although the percentage of workers who regularly used PPE is not known, the human cases associated with dairy farms in Texas and Michigan demonstrate the potential value of PPE, including eye and respiratory protection, especially on affected farms (4,5).
The cases identified to date have resulted in mild illness, which might not have been detected without the collaboration of state officials and the engagement of farms and workers.
Streamlined, nonintrusive approaches to monitoring, such as the text-message monitoring used in Michigan, might encourage participation and subsequent testing.
A One Health†† approach including collaboration with agriculture departments, farms, and workers is crucial to successful public health response.
Top Acknowledgments Michigan dairy and poultry producers and farm workers; Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development; People.Health.
Michigan Local Health Departments Jennifer Johnson, Mid-Michigan District Health Department; Dena Kent, Mid-Michigan District Health Department; Lisa Mikesell, Mid-Michigan District Health Department; Jennifer Morse, Mid-Michigan District Health Department; Becky Stoddard, Mid-Michigan District Health Department; Aimee Feehan, Ionia Health Department; Chris May, Ionia Health Department; Yolanda Rivera, Ionia Health Department; Chad Shaw, Ionia Health Department; Tamara Drake, Ottawa County Health Department; Deral Glashower, Ottawa County Health Department; Adeline Hambley, Ottawa County Health Department; Gwen Unzicker, Ottawa County Health Department; Rikki Fedewa, Central Michigan District Health Department; Susan Leeson, Central Michigan District Health Department; Clare Jansen, District Health Department ; Kali Nichols, Barry-Eaton Health Department; Maddie Vervaeke, Barry-Eaton Health Department; Lisa Letts, Allegan Health Department; Erin Radke, Allegan Health Department; Elizabeth Baty, Ingham County Health Department; Darcie Cunningham, Ingham County Health Department; Kira Hecksel, Ingham County Health Department; Mary Huffman, Ingham County Health Department; Wai Yi Leung, Ingham County Health Department; Kassi Nelson, Ingham County Health Department; Sumeer Qurashi, Ingham County Health Department; Adenike Shoyinka, Ingham County Health Department; William Nettleton, Calhoun County Health Department; Eric Pessell, Calhoun County Health Department.
Bureau of Laboratories Katie Margulieux, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Diana Riner, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Marty Soehnlen, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Jalen Stricklen, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Jason Wholehan, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Bureau of Infectious Disease Prevention Investigation Team Smeralda Bushi, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Derick Chia, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Ebonē Colbert, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Jim Collins, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Justin Henderson, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Tiffany Henderson, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Shannon Johnson, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Sue Kim, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Mat Myers, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Sarah Pruett, Bureau of Infectious Disease Prevention Investigation Team; Briana Putrus, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; Bethany Reimink, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Top Corresponding author: Joseph Coyle, CoyleJ@michigan.gov.
Top 1Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
Natasha Bagdasarian reports travel or meeting support from the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO), and Bloomberg; participation on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for ASTHO (including the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and the Infectious Disease Policy Committee), the Center for Emerging and Infectious Diseases, the Center for Emerging and Infectious Diseases Advisory Board at Wayne State University, the Child Lead Exposure Elimination Commission (chair), the Clinical Competency Committee, the Council for Outbreak Response: Healthcare-Associated Infections and Antimicrobial-resistant Pathogens Committee (co-chair), iMPROve Health Board, the Metropolitan Affairs Coalition Healthcare Task Force, the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) Institutional Review Board, the Michigan Health and Hospital Association Public Health Taskforce, MDHHS Michigan State Health Improvement Plan Steering Committee, the National Kidney Foundation of Michigan Morris Hood III Advisory Committee, the Physicians Health Plan Advisory Board, Preventative Medicine Residency Program Evaluation Committee, the Public Health Advisory Council (chair), the School Safety Commission, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America External Affairs Committee, and the Technical Advisory Group, National Academy of State Health Policy.
Fatema Mamou reports travel support from CSTE.
Sarah Lyon-Callo reports travel support from CSTE and ASTHO to attend meetings and service as president of CSTE’s executive board and as the MDHHS’s representative on the Michigan Public Health Institute’s Board of Directors.
No other potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top * 45 CFR part.
46; 5 U.S.C.
301; 42 U.S.C.
289(a); 42 U.S.C.
†  §  ¶  ** Antiviral treatment is recommended with oseltamivir as soon as possible for outpatients and hospitalized patients who have suspected, probable, or confirmed cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease.
 †† One Health is an approach that recognizes the interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental health.
 Top References Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, US Department of Agriculture.
Detections of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) in livestock.
Riverdale, MD: US Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; 2024.
Accessed 23 May 2024.
 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, US Department of Agriculture.
Confirmations of highly pathogenic avian influenza in commercial and backyard flocks.
Riverdale, MD: US Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; 2024.
Accessed 23 May 2024.
 Nguyen TQ, Hutter C, Markin A, et al.
Emergence and interstate spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) in dairy cattle.
Outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses in U.S.
dairy cattle and detection of two human cases—United States, 2024.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:501–5.
 PMID:38814843 Uyeki TM, Milton S, Abdul Hamid C, et al.
Highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infection in a dairy farm worker.
N Engl J Med 2024;390:2028–9.
 PMID:38700506 Top Suggested citation for this article: Coyle J, Bagdasarian N, Eckel S, et al.
Notes from the Field: Health Monitoring, Testing, and Case Identification Among Persons Exposed to Influenza A(H5N1) — Michigan, 2024.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:656–658.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone AUGUST 15, 2024 ESPAÑOL How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu PURPOSE CDC's National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) captures electronic health record data reported automatically from more than 6,500 U.S.
healthcare facilities, representing nearly 80% of emergency departments (ED) in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Guam.
What the CDC is doing August 15, 2024 – CDC is using multiple data sources to assess and respond to emerging health threats like the avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, which has caused confirmed infections in multiple species, including U.S.
poultry and dairy cattle, as well as 13 recent human infections, as of this posting.
CDC's National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) captures electronic health record data reported automatically from more than 6,500 U.S.
healthcare facilities, representing nearly 80% of emergency departments (ED) in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Guam.
These data become available within 24 hours of a patient visit to a participating ED.
They complement other surveillance systems, but because of their timeliness, can give public health officials an early warning about potentially concerning levels of illness, allowing further investigation and action.
CDC's NSSP helps public health departments track both symptoms and diagnoses to detect unusual levels of illness, such as increases in influenza activity.
In addition to tracking respiratory illnesses, ED data can be used to monitor drug overdoses, heat-related illness, tick bites, and more.
More than 1,400 state and local public health partners use these data through the NSSP Community of Practice, including to inform emergency response, track use of healthcare resources, and/or connect people with preventive care.
Using Emergency Department Data to Detect Potential Local Increases in Influenza During the Response to H5N1 Bird Flu As part of our ongoing effort to monitor the impact of the avian influenza A(H5N1) outbreak, CDC staff monitor NSSP data and provide the weekly percentage of total ED visits associated with flu diagnoses.
It is important to note that these visits are among persons with any influenza diagnosis and are not specific to H5N1 bird flu.
However, monitoring all flu diagnoses helps establish baseline flu activity in a given area and provides an early indicator of change.
This helps public health professionals determine where to look more closely if there are unexpected increases in flu activity.
CDC routinely uses multiple flu indicators—including syndromic surveillance—to track influenza activity.
Because such a high percentage of U.S.
EDs contribute to NSSP, increases in reported ED visits due to influenza infections, at a more granular geographic level, may be recognized more easily than with other surveillance systems.
Local public health departments are able to view local jurisdictional data.
CDC, which supports local, state, regional and national responses, looks across multiple indicators when there are increases in reported influenza visits.
Tracking the Virus CDC monitors influenza virus and illness activity year-round.
State and local public health professionals can use the surveillance data that CDC makes available to them and to the public to get a better understanding of the avian influenza A(H5N1) situation.
CDC and public health departments collaboratively monitor flu activity using data 1 from laboratories, outpatient providers, hospitals and vital statistics offices.
CDC's ongoing investments in enhancing syndromic surveillance unites public health departments in tracking the spread of diseases that cross jurisdictional borders.
When unusual trends or data anomalies are detected by the agency, CDC's NSSP consults with state or local health departments via the NSSP Community of Practice.
Using NSSP data as well as other surveillance systems, CDC staff and state and local public health professionals are working to provide timely, accurate data so that decision-makers and the public can make informed health choices.
Information on other surveillance systems that are used to track flu is available, along with how those systems are being used to track H5N1.
KEEP READING: Learn more about how respiratory illness cases are extracted from syndromic surveillance data.
Resources H5 Bird Flu: Current Situation National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) ON THIS PAGE What the CDC is doing Using Emergency Department Data to Detect Potential Local Increases in Influenza During the Response to H5N1 Bird Flu Tracking the Virus Resources RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 2, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 For Everyone AUG.
16, 2024 AT A GLANCE In this week's update, CDC shares information about ongoing serology studies in Colorado and Michigan, genetic characterization of viruses from recent human cases in Colorado poultry workers, and how CDC's National Syndromic Surveillance Program is supporting this response.
Situation Update August 16, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 13 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected poultry.
1 2 Based on the information available at this time, CDC's current assessment is that the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 191 dairy cow herds in 13 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 35 commercial flocks and 21 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.68 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Serology Update CDC continues to work with Michigan and Colorado to conduct avian influenza A(H5N1) seroprevalence investigations among dairy farm workers with potential exposure to infected cattle.
Specimens from both states will be tested by CDC for the presence of neutralizing antibodies to these viruses, a sign of prior infection.
In preliminary findings from the Michigan-led study released on July 19 (CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update, July 19, 2024), no antibodies specific to avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses were detected in any of the blood samples collected in June 2024 from 35 people who work on dairy farms in Michigan with herds that were confirmed positive for HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
Michigan has since completed enrollment of additional farms in the state for a second phase of the study.
CDC is working with both states to interpret and share results of these studies as they become available.
Laboratory Update Antigenic characterization of the viruses isolated from five of the nine human cases in Colorado poultry workers has shown that the viruses remain antigenically similar to two previously developed candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) developed by CDC and available to manufacturers for vaccine production.
Virus was not recoverable from the four remaining Colorado cases, so antigenic characterization could not be performed.
Testing has also shown that the viruses are antigenically similar to previous clade 2.3.4.4b viruses isolated from dairy farm workers.
Results of antiviral susceptibility testing of the viruses are pending.
CDC also continues to meet with commercial laboratories to discuss H5 assay licensing agreements and interest in development of commercial H5 tests.
CDC's Technology Transfer Office and the Influenza Division are actively pursuing licensing agreements with multiple companies, and several have been completed.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers.
This includes specific outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
Surveillance Update CDC has posted a spotlight describing the National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) and its role in supporting CDC's response to avian influenza A(H5N1).
One of multiple surveillance tools CDC uses year-round, the NSSP collects, analyzes, and shares electronic health record data received from more than 6,500 U.S.
healthcare facilities representing nearly 80% of emergency departments (ED) in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Guam.
CDC uses syndromic surveillance in partnership with participating state and local health departments to capture data quickly, identify unusual trends in flu activity, improve situational awareness, and inform decision-making.
CDC staff monitor NSSP data and provide the weekly percentage of total ED visits associated with flu diagnoses.
It is important to note that these visits are among persons with any influenza diagnosis and are not specific to H5N1.
However, monitoring all flu diagnoses helps establish baseline flu activity in a given area and provides an early indicator of change.
This helps public health professionals determine where to look more closely if there are unexpected increases in flu activity.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,500 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 230 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 40,900 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlight An August 14, 2024 preliminary risk assessment of influenza A(H5N1) clade 2.3.4.4b viruses by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) reported that the global public health risk of these viruses is low, while the risk of infection for occupationally exposed persons is "low to moderate depending on the risk mitigation measures in place." Among other actions, the authors recommend that countries increase surveillance efforts in domestic and wild birds; include infection with an influenza A(H5N1) virus as a differential diagnosis in cattle and other non-avian species with a high risk of exposure; promptly report infections in animal species to WOAH; and share genetic sequences of avian influenza viruses in publicly available databases.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 11,472,940 Spanish In-Feed 2,253,625 Instagram English In-Feed 3,821,611 Spanish In-Feed 321,059 Social Totals 17,878,496 Display Fusable English Display 3,941,221 Spanish Display 553,305 Display Totals 4,494,526 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 2,766,387 Spanish Audio + Display 1,054,517 Audio Totals 3,820,904 Language Totals English Language 22,002,159 Spanish Language 4,182,506 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 26,193,926 ON THIS PAGE Situation Update Publication Highlight CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 9, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 For Everyone SEPT.
13, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's update, CDC shares additional information on the investigation into the H5 case reported by Missouri last week, in addition to an update on the partial sequence of the virus from that case and a serology study in Ohio.
Additionally, CDC shares updates from recent weeks, including (1) an MMWR report on a cluster of cases of H5N1 in Colorado poultry workers, (2) changes to the way CDC displays wastewater surveillance data, and (3) results of antiviral susceptibility testing of viruses isolated from Colorado poultry workers.
Situation Update September 13, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 14 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected poultry.
A BThe source of the exposure in the most recent case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, has not been determined.
The immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 202 dairy cow herds in 14 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
Most recently, outbreaks in cows on eight California dairy farms were confirmed.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 35 commercial flocks and 22 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.68 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Missouri Case Update Missouri continues to lead the investigation into the H5 case reported last week with technical assistance from CDC in Atlanta.
The case was in a person who was hospitalized as a result of significant underlying medical conditions.
They presented with chest pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and weakness.
The person was not severely ill, nor were they in the intensive care unit.
They were treated with influenza antiviral medications, subsequently discharged, and have since recovered.
One household contact of the patient became ill with similar symptoms on the same day as the case, was not tested, and has since recovered.
The simultaneous development of symptoms does not support person-to-person spread but suggests a common exposure.
Also shared by Missouri, subsequently, a second close contact of the case – a health care worker – developed mild symptoms and tested negative for flu.
A 10-day follow-up period has since passed, and no additional cases have been found.
There is no epidemiologic evidence to support person-to-person transmission of H5 at this time.
CDC's original report about the case in Missouri is available: CDC Confirms Human H5 Bird Flu Case in Missouri | CDC Newsroom.
CDC has attempted to sequence the full genome of the virus from the most recent case of H5 reported by Missouri.
Because of low amounts of genetic material (viral RNA) in the clinical specimen, sequencing produced limited data for analyses.
Full-length gene sequences were obtained for the matrix gene (M) and non-structural (NS) genes and partial gene sequences were obtained for the hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) genes.
The available gene sequences are all closely related to U.S.
dairy cow viruses, and similar sequences have been found in birds and other animals around dairy farms, raw milk, and poultry.
The HA gene sequence confirms that the virus is clade 2.3.4.4b, and the NA sequence was confirmed as N1.
There are two amino acid differences in the HA that have not been seen in sequences from previous human cases.
These amino acid differences are not known to be associated with changes to the virus's ability to infect and spread among people.
However, both differences are in locations that may impact the cross-reactivity of clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs).
Additional antigenic testing is planned.
One of the two amino acid differences (HA A156T) has been identified in fewer than 1 percent of viruses detected in dairy cows.
The other amino acid difference (HA P136S) has been seen in only a single dairy cow sequence.
In addition to the HA analysis, no markers of reduced susceptibility to neuraminidase inhibitors and no markers of mammalian adaptation were found.
These findings suggest that currently available neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza are expected to maintain their effectiveness and that the virus from this person does not show signs of increased potential to spread from person to person.
Sequence data for A/Missouri/121/2024 was submitted to GISAID (EPI_ISL_19413343) and GenBank (PQ327626-PQ327629).
Additionally, multiple attempts to propagate virus from the clinical specimen were not successful.
Also, since the last update, CDC performed antiviral susceptibility testing of avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses isolated from the previously reported human cases associated with poultry exposure in Colorado.
All of the virus specimens were determined to be susceptible to FDA-approved and recommended antivirals (oseltamivir, zanamivir, peramivir, and baloxavir).
On a related note, CDC is awarding contracts that will significantly bolster the United States' ability to respond to public health emergencies through securing additional nationwide testing capacity and data reporting for new and emerging health threats, including H5N1 bird flu.
Under the contracts, public- and private-sector laboratories would be able to begin testing immediately in collaboration with CDC, performing 10,000 tests per week at the beginning of a response.
If needed, these same laboratories could scale to over 100,000 tests per week over a short period of time, enhancing access to critical clinical laboratory data across more than 200 reportable conditions to support ongoing situational awareness for the country.
These contracts both strengthen CDC's emergency response and allow private laboratories to develop new tests alongside CDC.
Outreach Update CDC has posted a new collection of videos aimed at informing the U.S.
public in general, and U.S.
farm workers in particular, about H5N1 bird flu – what it is, how to prevent it, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
The videos, each under a minute long and available on YouTube, answer commonly asked questions, such as "Who is at risk for getting H5N1 bird flu?", "How can I protect myself from getting H5N1 bird flu?", and "What do I do if I get H5N1 bird flu?" Spanish-language versions of these videos are being posted as they are finalized.
CDC continues to support other forms of outreach to farm workers.
This includes specific outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
Surveillance Update A CDC team of epidemiologists, veterinarians, and health communication specialists is working with the Ohio Department of Health this week on a serosurvey that will assess past exposure to H5 viruses among a national network of veterinarians and other veterinary professionals.
To do this, CDC and Ohio staff are at a bovine practitioner conference enrolling people, asking them questions about exposures, and taking blood samples to look for antibodies to H5 viruses.
The goal of this activity is to better understand the extent of prior influenza A(H5) infections among people who work closely with cows and the current risk of infection associated with occupational exposures among people who work frequently with cows in various settings and with different degrees and types of exposures.
CDC has updated its H5 Monitoring page to display results of testing for avian influenza A(H5) virus in wastewater reported to CDC.
There are now approximately 168 sites in 41 states testing and reporting to CDC, and these numbers will continue to increase.
In each site, wastewater samples are collected and tested for avian influenza A(H5) virus one or more times weekly.
If any of the wastewater samples from a site test positive, that site will be classified as "H5 Detection"; if no samples test positive for avian influenza A(H5), the site will be classified as "No Detection." Data will be updated on the CDC site every Friday and displayed in an interactive map.
All data are preliminary and may change as more reports are received.
Wastewater data cannot determine the source of avian influenza A(H5) viruses, which could come from a human or from an animal (like a bird) or an animal product (like milk from an infected cow).
However, while detections of avian influenza A(H5) virus in wastewater do not necessarily indicate human cases, they complement data from traditional influenza surveillance systems and help inform public health planning and response.
Efforts to monitor avian influenza A(H5) virus activity using wastewater data are likely to evolve as the methodologies and interpretation are evaluated and refined.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,800 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 240 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 47,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
One of the specimens tested at a public health laboratory as a part of routine surveillance was identified as presumptive A(H5) positive and was confirmed as A(H5) positive by CDC.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlight An MMWR report published on August 29, 2024, describes how the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment (CDPHE), with CDC support, responded to a cluster of nine human cases of H5N1 bird flu associated with poultry outbreaks at two commercial egg-laying facilities in northeast Colorado.
All nine workers who tested positive for H5 bird flu had mild illness and presented with conjunctivitis (eye redness).
Investigators found no evidence of person-to-person transmission.
Upon being notified on July 11 of ill workers at a poultry facility where poultry were confirmed to have been infected, CDPHE mobilized a field team to conduct testing among symptomatic workers and offer them treatment with the influenza antiviral oseltamivir.
From July 11 - July 26, CDHPE screened 663 workers assisting with poultry depopulation across the two facilities.
Specimens that tested presumptively positive for influenza A(H5) virus or with inconclusive results were sent to CDC for confirmatory testing.
The cases represent the first cluster of human cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) in the United States associated with exposure to poultry.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Table 1.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 16,137,334 Spanish In-Feed 3,464,800 Instagram English In-Feed 5,025,400 Spanish In-Feed 416,719 Social Totals 25,044,253 Display Fusable English Display 5,900,476 Spanish Display 937,659 Display Totals 6,838,135 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 4,623,297 Spanish Audio + Display 1,604,496 Audio Totals 6,227,798 Language Totals English Language 31,686,507 Spanish Language 6,423,674 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 38,110,181 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update Publication Highlight CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 How CDC Uses Emergency Department Data to Watch for Unusual Patterns of Flu Amid Concerns Over H5N1 Bird Flu VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 For Everyone SEPT.
20, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's update, CDC shares information on a new MMWR report summarizing data from the first 9 weeks of monitoring influenza A viruses, including avian influenza A(H5), in wastewater across the United States; an update on an H5 serosurvey of bovine practitioners; an update on the investigation in Missouri; and an update on the implementation of guidance around CDC's influenza surveillance activities for the 2024-2025 season.
Situation Update September 20, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 14 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected poultry.
12The source of the exposure in the most recent case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, has not been determined.
The immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 213 dairy herds in 14 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 36 commercial flocks and 22 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.68 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Missouri Case Update Missouri continues to lead the investigation into the H5 case with technical assistance from CDC in Atlanta.
CDC's original report about the case in Missouri is available: CDC Confirms Human H5 Bird Flu Case in Missouri | CDC Newsroom.
Earlier this week, the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services collected blood samples from the person who tested positive for H5N1 in Missouri and a household contact who became ill on the same day and was not tested.
Both persons have since recovered.
The samples are being sent to CDC for serologic testing to look for antibodies to avian influenza A(H5) virus, which would indicate a previous infection.
The simultaneous development of symptoms in two people does not support person-to-person spread but suggests a common exposure.
As part of the ongoing contact investigation, Missouri identified one additional health care worker contact who had developed mild respiratory symptoms and was not tested for influenza as the illness had resolved before the investigation began.
Serologic testing will be offered to this second health care worker.
As CDC previously reported, one health care worker with exposure to the infected individual was tested for influenza and was negative.
CDC continues to closely monitor available data from influenza surveillance systems, particularly in affected states, and there has been no sign of unusual influenza activity in people, including in Missouri.
Last week, CDC reported on sequencing of the clinical specimen from the Missouri case.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes target outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free flu vaccinations being offered to livestock workers in affected states this season.
Surveillance Update CDC posted a spotlight with more information about a serosurvey begun last week that is aimed at assessing past exposure to H5 viruses among members of a national network of veterinarians and other veterinary professionals.
The study, conducted by CDC in collaboration with the Ohio Department of Health and the American Association of Bovine Practitioners (AABP), enrolled about 150 attendees of the AABP's annual conference held last week in Columbus, Ohio.
CDC is also posting a new webpage describing influenza surveillance activities for the 2024-2025 flu season that are aimed at identifying possible spread of HPAI A(H5) to and among people while monitoring seasonal influenza activity.
Activities range from individual-level symptom monitoring among those exposed to infected/potentially infected animals (specifically swine, cattle, poultry and other avian species) to monitoring of surveillance data for the general population.
These activities will be modified as new information becomes available or the situation changes in a way that warrants a revised approach.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 4,900 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 240 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 49,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
One of the specimens tested at a public health laboratory as a part of routine surveillance was identified as presumptive A(H5) positive and was confirmed as A(H5) positive by CDC.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
Publication Highlight A new MMWR report published on September 19, 2024 summarizes data from the first 9 weeks of monitoring influenza A virus and avian influenza A(H5) in wastewater across the United States, including findings from collaborations with state and local health departments to investigate potential sources.
The authors report that from May 12 to July 13, 2024, high levels of influenza A virus were detected in wastewater in 4 states, including 3 states with ongoing seasonal human influenza virus activity.
During the same period, 9 states (California, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, South Dakota, and Texas) reported one or more H5 detections in wastewater, with follow-up investigations in many of these states pointing to animal-related inputs as the likely source.
The findings underscore the importance of a One Health response to this outbreak in dairy cows and the value of coordination across different sectors, including health, agriculture, wildlife, food safety, and others.
Relatedly, a new CDC-authored editorial published on September 19, 2024 in the American Journal of Public Health outlines the challenges and opportunities for wastewater monitoring of influenza viruses in the context of the ongoing threat from HPAI A(H5N1) viruses.
The authors recommend actions to ensure the effectiveness of wastewater monitoring and its use for this evolving threat to public health.
Also of note: "An Update on Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus, Clade 2.3.4.4b " CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 18,215,155 Spanish In-Feed 3,849,926 Instagram English In-Feed 5,526,692 Spanish In-Feed 430,663 Social Totals 28,022,436 Display Fusable English Display 6,655,412 Spanish Display 1,086,209 Display Totals 7,741,621 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 5,134,800 Spanish Audio + Display 1,780,070 Audio Totals 6,914,870 Language Totals English Language 35,532,059 Spanish Language 7,146,868 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 42,678,927 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update Publication Highlight CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update August 16, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All JUNE 21, 2024 Companion Guide: NSSP ED Data on Respiratory Illness PURPOSE This companion guide offers an in-depth look at how respiratory illness cases can be extracted from syndromic surveillance data.
Diagnostic codes and clinical terms used to create definitions for diagnosed COVID-19, influenza and RSV are outlined below.
Introduction The National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) is a collaboration among CDC, local and state health departments, with private sector partners.
Together, these partners collect, share, and analyze automated electronic healthcare data in near-real time.
The national data include emergency departments in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Guam.
View the coverage map here.
Inclusion Diagnostic codes and clinical terms were used to create definitions for diagnosed COVID-19, influenza, and RSV.
Jurisdiction-level data are not shown for Missouri because the proportion of records with a discharge diagnosis is low.
Jurisdiction-level data are not shown for New Hampshire, South Dakota, and Washington to ensure data use and other sharing agreements are appropriately addressed prior to public release.
Guam is not shown due to small counts.
Emergency department visits were assigned to the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) week they occurred; MMWR weeks begin on Sunday and end on the following Saturday.
MMWR week  of an MMWR year is the first week of the year that has at least four days in the calendar year.
Considerations for interpretation of data Variability in testing practices for different viruses and in different age groups may lead to under-ascertainment of respiratory infections in electronic healthcare data, including emergency department visits.
Patients who are less likely to be tested are less likely to be included.
These data are based on electronic diagnostic codes transmitted automatically in near real-time, and hospital practices for assigning these codes can vary.
These data are dynamic and update as codes are added and changed.
The weekly percent of emergency department visits with COVID-19 diagnosis on this site are not designed to match the percentages shown on the CDC COVID Data Tracker.
Metrics will differ across websites due to factors such as updates on different days of the week or different calculations, such as presentation of a 7-day moving average on daily data rather than weekly totals.
Data will also differ from state websites due to different update schedules, calculations, or definitions.
These data are not a random sample and are not intended to capture data from every hospital.
While these data are not designed to be randomly sampled or comprehensive, they provide a useful overall indicator of trends in emergency department use.
How percent of visits is calculated For data that are presented as a percentage, each respiratory illness is presented as a percent of all emergency department visits by age group.
For example, the COVID-19 data show emergency department visits for children ages 5-11 with diagnosed COVID-19 as a fraction of all emergency department visits for children ages 5-11.
Definitions The following discharge diagnoses (DD) and clinical terms are included: International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-10-CM), the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM), and Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine – Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT).
Please note that conditions can be defined in different ways in electronic healthcare data, and some jurisdictions may use different definitions.
Short codes listed capture all codes underneath (J09 captures J09.X1-J09.X9).
COVID-19 Definition name in the NSSP Electronic Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community-Based Epidemics (ESSENCE) system: CDC COVID-Specific DD v1 Code Type Codes Code Description Inclusions ICD-10-CM J12.82 Pneumonia due to coronavirus disease 2019 U07.1 COVID-19 SNOMED CT 840539006 Disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 840544004 Suspected disease caused by severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2 840533007 Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 Influenza Definition name in the NSSP ESSENCE system: CDC Influenza DD v1 Code Type Codes Code Description Inclusions ICD-10-CM J09 Influenza due to certain identified influenza viruses J10 Influenza due to other identified influenza viruses J11 Influenza due to unidentified influenza virus ICD-9-CM 487.0 Influenza with pneumonia 487.1 Influenza with other respiratory manifestations 487.8 Influenza with other manifestations 488.01 Influenza due to identified avian influenza virus with pneumonia 488.09 Influenza due to identified avian influenza virus with other manifestations 488.11 Influenza due to identified 2009 H1N1 influenza virus with pneumonia 488.19 Influenza due to identified 2009 H1N1 influenza virus with other manifestations 488.81 Influenza due to identified novel influenza A virus with pneumonia 488.89 Influenza due to identified novel influenza A virus with other manifestations SNOMED CT 442696006 Influenza caused by influenza A virus subtype H1N1 442438000 Influenza caused by Influenza A virus 6142004 Influenza 195878008 Pneumonia and influenza RSV Definition name in the NSSP ESSENCE system: CDC Respiratory Syncytial Virus DD v1 Code Type Codes Code Description Inclusions ICD-10-CM B97.4 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) as the cause of diseases classified elsewhere J12.1 Respiratory syncytial virus pneumonia J20.5 Acute bronchitis due to respiratory syncytial virus J21.0 Acute bronchiolitis due to respiratory syncytial virus ICD-9-CM 466.11 Acute bronchiolitis due to respiratory syncytial virus 480.1 Pneumonia due to respiratory syncytial virus 079.6 Respiratory syncytial virus SNOMED CT 55735004 Respiratory syncytial virus infection 408684006 Healthcare associated respiratory syncytial virus disease 195881003 Pneumonia caused by respiratory syncytial virus 10625551000119103 Bronchopneumonia caused by respiratory syncytial virus 57089007 Respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis 195739001 Acute bronchiolitis caused by respiratory syncytial virus 79479005 Respiratory syncytial virus bronchitis 195727009 Acute respiratory syncytial virus bronchitis 72204002 Respiratory syncytial virus laryngotracheobronchitis 31309002 Respiratory syncytial virus pharyngitis ON THIS PAGE Introduction Inclusion Considerations for interpretation of data How percent of visits is calculated Definitions COVID-19 Influenza RSV SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
FluView EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 14, 2025 U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods WHAT TO KNOW The Influenza Division at CDC collects, compiles, and analyzes information on influenza activity year-round in the United States.
Included below is a summary of the components of the U.S.
Influenza Surveillance System to which data are reported weekly and presented in FluView, CDC's influenza surveillance report.
Overview FluView, a weekly influenza surveillance report, and FluView Interactive, an online application that allows for more in-depth exploration of influenza surveillance data, are updated each week.
The data presented each week are preliminary and may change as more data are received.
influenza surveillance system is a collaborative effort between CDC and its many partners in state, local, and territorial health departments, public health and clinical laboratories, vital statistics offices, health care providers, hospitals, clinics, emergency departments, and long-term care facilities.
Information in five categories is collected from nine data sources in order to: Find out when and where influenza activity is occurring; Determine what influenza viruses are circulating; Detect changes in influenza viruses; and Measure the impact influenza is having on illness, hospitalizations, and deaths.
It is important to maintain a comprehensive system for influenza surveillance for the following reasons: Influenza viruses are constantly undergoing minor changes (this is commonly referred to as "antigenic drift"), and ongoing data collection and characterization of viruses helps to monitor these changes.
Influenza viruses can also undergo an abrupt, major change (referred to as "antigenic shift") that results in a virus that is much different than currently circulating influenza viruses.
Antigenic shift can result in a pandemic if a new influenza A virus that is able to infect people easily and spread from person to person in an efficient and sustained way emerges.
Surveillance of viruses can detect these changes and help inform the public health response.
Annual vaccination is recommended, and vaccines are updated regularly based on surveillance findings.
Treatment recommendations for influenza virus infection are informed by laboratory surveillance for antiviral resistance.
Influenza surveillance and targeted research studies are used to monitor the impact of influenza on different segments of the population (e.g., people in certain age groups, people with underlying medical conditions) and the impact of influenza prevention measures such as vaccines.
Virologic Surveillance U.S.
Influenza Collaborating Laboratories System (ICLS) and the National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) – Approximately 100 public health and approximately 300 clinical laboratories located throughout all 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the District of Columbia participate in virologic surveillance for influenza through either the U.S.
Influenza Collaborating Laboratories System or NREVSS.
Influenza testing practices differ between public health and clinical laboratories, and each network provides valuable information for monitoring influenza activity.
Clinical laboratories primarily test respiratory specimens for diagnostic purposes, and data from these laboratories provide useful information on the timing and intensity of influenza activity.
Public health laboratories primarily test specimens for surveillance purposes to understand what influenza virus types, subtypes, and lineages are circulating and the ages of people that are infected.
All public health and clinical laboratories report each week to CDC the total number of respiratory specimens tested for influenza and the number positive for influenza viruses, along with age or age group of the person, if available.
CDC presents data from clinical laboratories that include the weekly total number of specimens tested for influenza, the number of positive influenza tests, and the percent positive by influenza virus type.
For public health laboratories, CDC presents the weekly total number of specimens tested and the number positive by influenza virus type and subtype/lineage.
In order to obtain specimens in an efficient manner, public health laboratories often receive samples that have already tested positive for influenza at a clinical laboratory.
As a result, monitoring the percent of specimens testing positive for influenza in a public health laboratory is less useful (i.e., we expect a higher percent positive than what is actually occurring in the community).
In order to use each data source most appropriately and to avoid duplication, reports from public health and clinical laboratories are presented separately in both FluView and FluView Interactive.
The age distribution of people who have tested positive for influenza reported from public health laboratories can be visualized in FluView Interactive.
The number and proportion of influenza virus-positive specimens by influenza A subtype and influenza B lineage are presented by age group (0-4 years, 5-24 years, 25-64 years, and ≥65 years) each week and cumulative totals are provided for the season.
Additional laboratory data for current and past seasons and by geographic level (national, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) region, and state) are available on FluView Interactive.
Virus Characterization – This includes genetic and antigenic characterization.
Most viruses submitted for virus characterization in the United States come from state and local public health laboratories.
Due to Right Size considerations, public health laboratories are asked to submit to CDC the following specimens, if available, every other week during the 2023-2024 season: 4 influenza A(H1N1)pdm09, 6 influenza A(H3N2), 4 influenza B/Victoria-lineage, and all influenza B/Yamagata-lineage viruses.
Therefore, the number of viruses characterized will not reflect the actual proportion of circulating viruses.
The goals of genetic and antigenic characterization are to assess how similar the currently circulating influenza viruses are to viruses used to produce current influenza vaccines and to monitor evolutionary changes that continually occur in influenza viruses circulating in humans.
Specimens received from public health laboratories for virus characterization also serve as an important source of viruses to create candidate vaccine viruses for use in future influenza seasons.
For genetic characterization, all influenza-positive surveillance samples received at CDC undergo next-generation sequencing to determine their genetic identity.
This analysis identifies circulating influenza viruses and helps monitor the evolutionary trajectory of viruses circulating in the human population.
Sequences of virus gene segments are used for phylogenetic analysis, which allows categorization of viruses by genetic clades/subclades based on the similarity of the hemagglutinin gene segment and changes in the protein sequence.
However, genetic changes that classify the clades/subclades do not always result in antigenic changes.
Antigenic characterization is performed on a subset of viruses representing the genetic diversity in the population.
Analysis includes hemagglutination inhibition and/or neutralization assays to compare antigenic properties of circulating viruses to those of cell culture- and egg-propagated reference viruses that represent viruses used in the current influenza vaccines.
This allows for the detection of "antigenic drift", a term that describes the gradual antigenic change that occurs as viruses evolve to escape host immune pressure.
CDC also analyzes influenza viruses collected by public health laboratories for susceptibility to influenza antivirals, including neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir, zanamivir, and peramivir) and a PA cap-dependent endonuclease inhibitor (baloxavir).
Susceptibility to the neuraminidase inhibitors is assessed using next-generation sequencing analysis.
Neuraminidase sequences of viruses are inspected to detect the presence of amino acid substitutions previously associated with reduced or highly reduced inhibition by any of the three neuraminidase inhibitors.
In addition, a subset of viruses is tested using a neuraminidase inhibition assay.
Susceptibility to baloxavir is assessed using next-generation sequencing analysis to identify amino acid substitutions in the PA protein previously associated with reduced susceptibility to this antiviral.
A subset of representative viruses is also tested phenotypically using a cell culture-based assay (e.g., influenza replication inhibition neuraminidase-based assay – IRINA).
For surveillance purposes, antiviral susceptibility is typically conducted on viruses that are collected from patients not treated with influenza antivirals or before initiation of treatment.
Results of genetic and antigenic characterization and antiviral susceptibility testing are presented in the virus characterization and antiviral resistance sections of the FluView report.
Surveillance for Novel Influenza A Viruses – In 2007, human infection with a novel influenza A virus became a nationally notifiable condition in the United States.
Novel influenza A virus infections include all human infections with influenza A viruses that are different from currently circulating human seasonal influenza H1 and H3 viruses.
These viruses include those that are subtyped as nonhuman in origin and those that cannot be subtyped with standard laboratory methods and reagents.
Rapid detection and reporting of human infections with novel influenza A viruses – viruses against which there is often little to no pre-existing immunity in the population – is important to facilitate prompt awareness and characterization of influenza A viruses with pandemic potential and accelerate the implementation of public health responses to limit the transmission and impact of these viruses.
Newly identified cases of human infections with novel influenza A viruses in the United States are reported in FluView and additional information, including case counts by geographic location, virus subtype, and calendar year or season, are available on FluView Interactive.
Outpatient Influenza-like Illness Surveillance Network (ILINet).
ILINet consists of outpatient healthcare providers in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands.
More than 110 million patient visits were reported during the 2022-23 season.
Each week, more than 3,400 outpatient health care providers around the country report to CDC the number of patient visits for ILI by age group (0-4 years, 5-24 years, 25-49 years, 50-64 years, and ≥65 years) and the total number of visits for any reason.
A subset of providers also reports total visits by age group.
Since the 2021-22 season, the case definition no longer includes "without a known cause other than influenza".
Since ILINet monitors visits for ILI and not laboratory-confirmed respiratory viruses, it will capture visits due to any respiratory pathogen that presents with the symptoms of fever plus cough or sore throat.
These data should be evaluated in the context of other surveillance data to obtain a complete and accurate picture of influenza activity.
Additional data on medically attended visits for ILI for current and past seasons and by geographic level (national, HHS region, and state) are available on FluView Interactive.
The national percentage of patient visits to healthcare providers for ILI reported each week is calculated by combining state-specific data weighted by state population.
This percentage is compared each week with to the national baseline, which is 2.9% for the 2023-2024 influenza season.
The baseline is developed by calculating the mean percentage of patient visits for ILI during non-influenza weeks for the most recent two seasons and adding two standard deviations (2021-2022 and 2022-2023).
A non-influenza time period (e.g., a "non-influenza week") is defined as two or more consecutive weeks in which each week accounted for less than 2% of the season's total number of specimens that tested positive for influenza in public health laboratories.
Region-specific baselines are calculated using the same methodology.
Due to the wide variability in regional level data, it is not appropriate to apply the national baseline to regional data.
Regional baselines for the 2023-2024 influenza season are: Region 1 —1.9%Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont Region 2 — 4.2%New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands Region 3 — 2.4%Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia Region 4 — 3.3%Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee Region 5 — 2.3%Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin Region 6 — 3.7%Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas Region 7 — 2.0%Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska Region 8 — 3.2%Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming Region 9 — 3.6%Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada Region 10 — 1.9%Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington ILI Activity Indicator Map: — Activity levels in a jurisdiction are based on the percent of outpatient visits due to ILI compared to the average percent of ILI visits that occur during weeks with little or no influenza virus circulation (non-influenza weeks) in that jurisdiction.
The number of sites reporting each week is variable; therefore, baselines are adjusted each week based on which sites within each jurisdiction provide data.
To perform this adjustment, provider level baseline ILI ratios are calculated for providers that have a sufficient reporting history.
Providers that do not have the required reporting history to calculate a provider-specific baseline are assigned the baseline ratio for their practice type.
The jurisdiction level baseline is then calculated using a weighted sum of the baseline ratios for each contributing provider.
The activity levels compare the mean reported percent of visits due to ILI during the current week to the mean reported percent of visits due to ILI during non-influenza weeks.
The 13 activity levels correspond to the number of standard deviations below, at, or above the mean for the current week compared to the mean during non-influenza weeks.
Activity levels are classified as minimal (levels 1-3), low (levels 4-5), moderate (levels 6-7), high (levels 8-10), and very high (levels 11-13).
An activity level of 1 corresponds to an ILI percentage below the mean, level 2 corresponds to an ILI percentage less than 1 standard deviation above the mean, level 3 corresponds to an ILI percentage more than 1 but less than 2 standard deviations above the mean, and so on, with an activity level of 10 corresponding to an ILI percentage 8 to 11 standard deviations above the mean.
The very high levels correspond to an ILI percentage 12 to 15 standard deviations above the mean for level 11, 16 to 19 standard deviations above the mean for level 12, and 20 or more standard deviations above the mean for level 13.
The ILI Activity Indicator map reflects the intensity of ILI activity, not the extent of geographic spread of ILI, within a jurisdiction.
Therefore, outbreaks occurring in a single area could cause the entire jurisdiction to display high or very high activity levels.
In addition, data collected in ILINet may disproportionally represent certain populations within a jurisdiction, and therefore, may not accurately depict the full picture of respiratory illness activity for the entire jurisdiction.
Differences in the data presented here by CDC and independently by some health departments likely represent differing levels of data completeness with data presented by the health department likely being more complete.
The ILI Activity Indicator Map displays state-specific and core-based statistical area (CBSA) specific activity levels by week for multiple seasons and allows a visual representation of relative levels of ILI activity from state to state.
More information is available on FluView Interactive.
Hospitalization Surveillance FluSurv-NET Laboratory-confirmed influenza-associated hospitalizations are monitored through the Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET).
FluSurv-NET has conducted population-based surveillance for laboratory-confirmed influenza-related hospitalizations in children younger than 18 years of age since the 2003-2004 influenza season and in adults since the 2005-2006 influenza season.
The current network covers over 90 counties or county equivalents in the 10 Emerging Infections Program (EIP) states (CA, CO, CT, GA, MD, MN, NM, NY, OR, and TN) and four additional states through the Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Project (MI, NC, OH, and UT).
The network represents approximately 9% of US population (~30 million people).
A full description of this system is available at Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance Network (FluSurv-NET).
FluSurv-NET data including hospitalization rates for multiple seasons and different age groups and data on patient characteristics (such as virus type, demographic, and clinical information) are available on FluView Interactive.
National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) Hospitalization Surveillance During the COVID-19 pandemic, all hospitals registered with CMS and non-CMS hospitals were required to report COVID-19 and influenza information on laboratory testing, capacity and utilization, and patient flows to facilitate the public health response to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
As of December 15, 2022, these data are required to be reported to CDC's NHSN, which monitors national and local trends in healthcare system stress, capacity, and community disease levels for approximately 6,000 hospitals in the United States.
The detailed list of reported data elements are provided here .
More information on the transition to the NHSN system can be found here: 
Influenza data elements include: Total number of hospitalized patients with laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infection.
Previous day's number of admissions with laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infection.
Total number of hospitalized ICU patients with laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infection.
The numbers of new hospital admissions with laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infection reported to NHSN are aggregated by week at the national and HHS region level.
New hospital admissions are defined as patients who were admitted to an inpatient bed on the previous calendar day and had a positive influenza test at admission or during the 14 days prior.
Laboratory confirmation includes detection of influenza virus infection through molecular tests (e.g., polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid amplification), antigen detection tests, immunofluorescence tests, and virus culture.
For hospital reporting, laboratory-confirmed influenza is categorized as influenza A or B.
These datafiles are available to the public at 
Number of hospital admissions, ICU hospitalizations, and hospital admissions rates for the current season and the 2022-2023 season by geographic level (national and HHS region) are available on FluView Interactive Mortality Surveillance National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) Mortality Surveillance Data – NCHS collects death certificate data from state vital statistics offices for all deaths occurring in the United States.
Deaths included in this component of the U.S.
Influenza Surveillance System are those which are classified based on ICD-10 multiple cause of death codes as associated with influenza, COVID-19, or pneumonia.
Data are aggregated by the week of death occurrence.
NCHS surveillance data are included in FluView one week after the week of death and percentages for earlier weeks are continually revised and may increase or decrease as new and updated death certificate data are received by NCHS.
Three measures have been used to monitor influenza mortality: pneumonia and/or influenza (P&I); pneumonia, influenza, and/or COVID-19 (PIC); and influenza (I).
Prior to the 2020-2021 influenza season, the NCHS surveillance data were used to calculate the percent of all deaths occurring each week that had pneumonia and/or influenza (P&I) listed as a cause of death.
Since many influenza deaths and many COVID-19 deaths have pneumonia included on the death certificate, P&I does not measure the impact of influenza in the same way that it had prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.
This is because the proportion of pneumonia deaths associated with influenza is now influenced by COVID-19-related pneumonia.
Beginning in the 2020-2021 influenza season, COVID-19 coded deaths were added to P&I to create the PIC (pneumonia, influenza, and/or COVID-19) classification.
PIC includes all deaths with pneumonia, influenza, and/or COVID-19 listed on the death certificate.
Starting with the 2023-2024 influenza season, the percent of deaths with influenza listed on the death certificate will be displayed in FluView.
P&I no longer measures the impact of influenza in the same way it had prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the PIC measure is largely being driven COVID-19 activity making it difficult to monitor the impact of influenza using that measure.
Although monitoring influenza-only coded deaths will underestimate the full impact of influenza mortality, this measure allows for tracking trends in the impact of influenza on mortality and is not as influenced by COVID-19 as the other two measures.
Additionally, influenza burden estimates are calculated that account for underreporting of influenza on death certificates.
All three measures will be available on FluView Interactive, including baselines and thresholds for P&I and PIC.
The PIC and P&I percentages are compared to a seasonal baseline of P&I deaths that is calculated using a periodic regression model incorporating a robust regression procedure applied to data from the four years prior to the COVID-19 pandemic (2015 week 10 through 2020 week 9) and the 2022-2023 influenza season.
An increase of 1.645 standard deviations above the seasonal baseline of P&I deaths is considered the "epidemic threshold," (i.e., the point at which the observed proportion of deaths attributed to pneumonia, influenza, or COVID-19 was significantly higher than would be expected at that time of the year in the absence of substantial influenza- or COVID-19-related mortality).
Additional influenza, P&I and PIC mortality data for current and past seasons and by geographic level (national, HHS region, and state) are available on FluView Interactive.
Data displayed on the regional and state-level are aggregated by the state of residence of the decedent.
Influenza-Associated Pediatric Mortality Surveillance System — Influenza-associated pediatric mortality became a nationally notifiable condition in 2004.
For surveillance purposes, an influenza-associated pediatric death is defined as a death in a person less than 18 years of age, resulting from a clinically compatible illness that was confirmed to be influenza by an appropriate laboratory diagnostic test.
There should be no period of complete recovery between the illness and death.
Demographic and clinical information is collected on each case and reported to CDC.
Information on influenza-associated pediatric deaths including basic demographics, underlying medical conditions, bacterial co-infections, and place of death, is available on FluView Interactive for the current and past seasons.
Long-term Care Facilities The NHSN Long-term Care Facility influenza surveillance was reported during the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 influenza seasons.
This component was discontinued in 2023.
Data from previous seasons influenza seasons will remain available in past weekly surveillance reports.
Influenza Surveillance Considerations It is important to remember the following about influenza surveillance in the United States.
All influenza activity reporting by public health partners and health care providers to CDC is voluntary.
Surveillance information answers the questions of where, when, and what influenza viruses are circulating.
It can be used to determine if influenza activity is increasing or decreasing but it does not directly provide the number of influenza illnesses.
More information regarding how CDC classifies influenza severity and the disease burden (number of illnesses, hospitalizations, and deaths) of influenza is available.
The national influenza surveillance system consists of nine complementary surveillance components in five categories.
These components include reports from approximately 400 laboratories, more than 3,000 outpatient health care providers, vital statistics offices and the National Center for Health Statistics, research and healthcare personnel at FluSurv-NET sites, hospitals, and influenza surveillance coordinators and state epidemiologists from all state, local, and territorial health departments.
Influenza surveillance data are aggregated according to the week the event (e.g., positive laboratory test, outpatient visit, death) occurred.
The week starts on Sunday and ends on the following Saturday.
Each surveillance participant is requested to report its data to CDC by Tuesday afternoon of the following week.
The data are then downloaded, compiled, and analyzed at CDC.
FluView and FluView Interactive are updated weekly on Fridays.
The reporting period for each influenza season begins during Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) week 40 and ends week 39 of the following year.
MMWR weeks refer to the sequential numbering of weeks (Sunday through Saturday) during a calendar year.
This means that the exact start of the new influenza surveillance season varies slightly from season to season.
The 2023-2024 influenza season begins October 1, 2023, and ends on September 28, 2023.
The timing of the annual "Flu season" — as determined by elevated flu activity – also varies from season to season.
During most seasons, activity begins to increase in October, most often peaks between December and February and can remain elevated into May.
The flu season is said to have started after consecutive weeks of elevated flu activity are registered in the various CDC influenza surveillance systems.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Virologic Surveillance Outpatient Illness Surveillance Hospitalization Surveillance Mortality Surveillance Long-term Care Facilities Influenza Surveillance Considerations SOURCES PRINT SHARE FluView Weekly U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report View All Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health AUGUST 13, 2024 Community of Practice WHAT TO KNOW The NSSP Community of Practice (CoP) unites more than 1,400 public health professionals nationwide.
CoP members share tools and expertise to investigate and fight disease spread.
Our vision is to help foster one connected community.
We empower public health professionals to engage robustly with health care, communicate meaningfully with the public, and improve health equity.
A resource for all public health professionals All public health professionals are encouraged to engage with the long-established NSSP Community of Practice , and those new to syndromic surveillance are invited to join.
This group is committed to advancing syndromic surveillance practice by leveraging the expertise and resources of members to strengthen public health surveillance capabilities nationwide.
The NSSP CoP comes together virtually to share information, build knowledge, and solve problems.
Fostering this group is an investment in building expertise to support the health of our communities.
NSSP CoP quick link‎ We encourage all public health professionals to strengthen their practice and grow expertise through the NSSP CoP.
Connect now Members range from epidemiologists conducting analyses for the first time to experts in public health surveillance.
The CoP includes public health jurisdictions that contribute data to the NSSP BioSense Platform and practitioners who use local syndromic surveillance systems—along with CDC programs, other federal agencies, partner organizations, hospitals, health care professionals, and academic institutions.
Reasons to join Benefits of joining the NSSP CoP include: Monthly webinars featuring syndromic surveillance experts from across the nation sharing real-world, current experiences Opportunities for networking, professional growth, and career expansion Access to a network of syndromic surveillance experts, including leaders in analytics, surveillance, informatics, data visualization, and more Workgroup participation to advance science and establish standards nationwide Opportunities to build partnerships, foster collaborations, and share lessons learned with other public health jurisdictions and organizations Engaging with others quickly and easily through Slack® Workspace, a communication tool Learn more about how to get involved with the NSSP CoP .
Knowledge Repository The NSSP CoP Knowledge Repository offers access to more than 2,000 surveillance resources.
Offerings includes meeting recordings, a syndrome library, guidance documents, and featured content.
How it's funded The Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists partners with NSSP to cultivate, facilitate, and maintain the NSSP Community of Practice in accordance with cooperative agreement -02-01: Strengthening Public Health Systems and Services through National Partnerships to Improve and Protect the Nation's Health.
Contacts To learn more, please contact 
You may also reach out to nssp@cdc.gov.
ON THIS PAGE A resource for all public health professionals Reasons to join Knowledge Repository How it's funded Contacts RELATED PAGES About NSSP About NSSP and the BioSense Platform Syndromic Surveillance for New Users CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) About NSSP and the BioSense Platform SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 For Everyone SEPT.
27, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW In this week's update, CDC shares an update on the investigation in Missouri; information about updated guidance on the use of personal protective equipment for people working with or exposed to infected animals; and information about a new standardized protocol for subtyping of wastewater samples that test positive for influenza A.
Situation Update September 27, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 14 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States.
Four of these cases were associated with exposure to sick dairy cows and nine were associated with exposure to avian influenza A(H5N1) virus-infected poultry.
A BThe source of the exposure in the most recent case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, has not been determined.
The immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 238 dairy herds in 14 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in dairy cows as the number of infected herds continues to grow.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been A(H5) detections in 36 commercial flocks and 23 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.75 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Missouri Case Update Missouri continues to lead the investigation into that state's only reported H5 case with technical assistance from CDC in Atlanta.
As CDC learns new information from Missouri about its investigation, we are sharing it as quickly as possible in this space to help keep the public up to date.
The Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services has not, to date, identified ongoing transmission among close contacts of the case, first reported on September 6, 2024.
Missouri identified two health care workers who were exposed to the hospitalized case before droplet precautions were instituted (i.e., higher risk exposure) and subsequently developed mild respiratory symptoms (among 18 workers with this higher risk exposure); one tested negative for influenza by PCR, as previously reported, and the second provided a blood specimen for testing by CDC for potential influenza A(H5N1) antibodies.
Missouri has since identified four additional health care workers who later developed mild respiratory symptoms.
One of these workers was in the higher risk category and provided a blood specimen for H5 antibody testing.
Three of these workers are among 94 workers who were exposed to the hospitalized case of avian influenza A(H5) after droplet precautions were instituted (i.e., lower risk exposure); blood specimens for those who became symptomatic have been collected for H5 antibody testing at CDC.
Aside from the one health care worker reported to have tested negative for influenza by PCR, the five remaining exposed health care workers had only mild symptoms and were not tested by PCR for respiratory infections.
PCR testing would have been unreliable at the time of discovery of these individuals' prior symptoms.
The health care worker monitoring effort has been part of the ongoing investigation as previously reported.
Results of serology testing at CDC on the positive case and their previously identified household contact are still pending.
To date, only one case of influenza A(H5N1) has been detected in Missouri.
No contacts of that case have tested positive for influenza A(H5N1).
CDC continues to closely monitor available data from influenza surveillance systems, particularly in affected states, and there has been no sign of unusual influenza activity in people, including in Missouri.
Laboratory Update CDC has developed a validated protocol for subtyping of wastewater C samples that test positive for influenza A.
These assays include primers and probes that target various subtypes, including influenza A, influenza A(H1N1), influenza A(H3), and influenza A(H5).
Partner laboratories can use this protocol to bring these assays online and report influenza A virus subtyping data to CDC.
Providing partner laboratories with a standardized approach to test wastewater for influenza A subtypes, including influenza A(H5N1), can support a more robust wastewater surveillance system.
Updated Recommendations for Personal Protective Equipment CDC has issued updated guidance for employers and workers to reduce the risk of Novel Influenza A for people working with or exposed to animals.
The updated guidance identifies occupational groups at increased risk of exposure and actions employers can take to protect workers, including additional engineering and administrative control measures, how to identify personal protective equipment (PPE) that meets the safety specifications, and how to mitigate heat stress when wearing PPE in hot environments.
Employers can use these updated materials to help prevent workplace exposures to H5N1 bird flu.
A new hazard assessment worksheet can help dairy facility employers determine when and how to implement protective measures.
Employers can also print, post, and share new fact sheets to help workers safely use PPE and protect themselves from H5N1 bird flu.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes target outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of avian influenza A(H5N1) infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to livestock workers in affected states this season.
Surveillance Update CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
To date, more than 5,000 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 240 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 50,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
One of the specimens tested at a public health laboratory as a part of routine surveillance was identified as presumptive A(H5) positive and was confirmed as A(H5) positive by CDC.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's enhanced, nationwide summer surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 21,338,332 Spanish In-Feed 4,154,304 Instagram English In-Feed 6,554,279 Spanish In-Feed 446,153 Social Totals 32,493,118 Display Fusable English Display 7,196,474 Spanish Display 1,209,151 Display Totals 8,405,625 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 5,509,608 Spanish Audio + Display 1,912,122 Audio Totals 7,421,730 Language Totals English Language 40,598,743 Spanish Language 7,721,730 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 48,320,473 ON THIS PAGE Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 13, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 For Everyone OCT.
11, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW In this week's spotlight, CDC confirms three additional cases of H5 bird flu in California, bringing the total in that state to six; shares a summary of genetic sequencing data of H5N1 bird flu viruses from California available to date; shares information about a new pilot program to test symptomatic farm and dairy workers for H5 bird flu; and provides an update on a program to offer free seasonal flu vaccines this season to farm workers in states affected by H5N1 bird flu.
Situation Update October 11, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, 20 human cases of avian influenza A(H5) virus infection have been reported in the United States; 21 in total since 2022.
Ten of these cases were associated with exposure to H5N1 bird flu-infected poultry and nine were associated with exposure to sick or infected dairy cows 12.
This includes six cases in California, two of which were confirmed by CDC on Thursday, October 3, two on Wednesday, October 9, and two on Thursday, October 10.
All California cases occurred in dairy workers on affected farms.
All of the California cases are from different farms, except for one case reported this week, which was from a farm that had a case reported previously.
The two cases from the same affected farm worked on different parts of the farm and are not close contacts of each other.
The epidemiology of the situation continues to suggest sporadic instances of animal-to-human spread.
All six California cases are reported to have experienced mild symptoms, including eye redness or discharge (conjunctivitis), and none were hospitalized.
Additional testing is ongoing in California, and presumptive positives are being routinely forwarded to CDC for confirmatory testing.
Going forward, CDC will track and report confirmed cases, by state and source of exposure, in a table on its website.
The source of the exposure in one case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, could not be determined.
Serological tests of the contacts of the Missouri case are pending.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5N1 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
On the animal health side, USDA is reporting that 299 dairy herds in 14 U.S.
states have confirmed cases of H5 bird flu virus infections in dairy cows.
The number of affected herds continues to grow nationally, fueled by increases in California.
Last week, USDA reported 56 affected dairy herds in California as of October 3.
That number increased to 100 by October 11.
USDA reports that since April 2024, there have been H5 detections in 36 commercial flocks and 26 backyard flocks, for a total of 18.75 million birds affected.
Among other activities previously reported in past spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update CDC has performed genetic sequencing on samples from the two human cases of H5 bird flu in California confirmed on Thursday, October 3, and one of two human cases in California confirmed on Wednesday, October 9.
Efforts to sequence additional cases are in progress.
The results confirm that all three viruses sequenced to date are clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 viruses, closely related to those detected in dairy cattle.
The whole genome was sequenced from one of the first two cases (A/California/135/2024) and was confirmed to be a B3.13 genotype virus.
CDC has publicly posted in GISAID and submitted to GenBank the HA, NA, and NS gene segments for A/California/134/2024 (GISAID EPI_ISL_19463619; NCBI_PQ435213- PQ435215) and the whole genome sequence for A/California/135/2024 (GISAID EPI_ISL_19463618; NCBI_PQ435216-PQ435223).
Additional sequencing data will be posted as it becomes available.
While the hemagglutinins (HAs) of the three sequenced viruses contained new amino acid changes compared to closely-related candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) – two in A/California/135/2024, three in A/California/134/2024, and three in A/California/146/2024 – none contained changes associated with increased infectivity or transmissibility among humans.
CDC identified no changes associated with reduced susceptibility to neuraminidase inhibitors or polymerase acidic inhibitors, nor were there any changes associated with mammalian adaptation in other gene segments in samples from any of the cases based on currently available sequence data.
CDC successfully isolated virus from samples from the first two confirmed cases in California.
Attempts to isolate virus from subsequent specimens are pending.
Antigenic characterization and antiviral susceptibility testing of the two viruses that have been isolated to date are underway.
Antigenic characterization will inform whether existing H5 bird flu CVVs are still well-matched to these viruses.
CDC also has completed development and quality control testing of a reverse genetics-generated virus with the HA mutations (HA P136S and A156T) identified in the virus isolated from the H5N1 bird flu case in Missouri reported on September 6, 2024.
Initial testing showed that the virus had reduced cross-reactivity to ferret antisera raised to viruses without these changes.
To ensure optimal match with the Missouri H5N1 bird flu virus, this reverse genetics-generated virus will be used for serology testing of serum samples from the confirmed case in Missouri and close contacts.
Seasonal Flu Vaccination Initiative CDC has allocated more than 100,000 doses of seasonal influenza vaccine to 12 states with dairy herds that have tested positive for H5 bird flu.
This is part of a CDC initiative announced this summer to provide a number of supplemental free seasonal influenza vaccines to farm workers across states affected by H5 to prevent the spread of seasonal flu in these communities and safeguard public health.
The 12 participating states include: California, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, South Dakota, and Texas.
All states with dairy herds that have tested positive for H5 bird flu were invited to apply to receive additional doses of seasonal influenza vaccine – allocated specifically for farm workers – beyond what the states were already planning to provide.
States will conduct screening to ensure these doses are going to farm workers and will track the number of doses given monthly by age.
CDC also has awarded approximately $2 million in funding to support the operational costs of the various activities jurisdictions are implementing to encourage and facilitate the uptake of seasonal flu vaccination among farm workers.
Examples include the use of mobile vaccine clinics, promotion via virtual town halls and vaccine education workshops, and partnering with local public health agencies and community-based organizations to organize mass vaccination events.
While a seasonal flu vaccine does not protect against H5 bird flu, expanding access to seasonal flu vaccines among farm workers can prevent severe illness and help reduce the strain of the flu season on rural health care systems.
Reducing the prevalence of seasonal flu also can help public health agencies better detect cases of H5 bird flu, should they occur.
And fewer people infected with seasonal flu means fewer opportunities for the very rare possibility of co-infection with both a human seasonal virus and an avian virus.
Surveillance Update As part of CDC's Farmworker Enhanced Surveillance Program (FWESP), CDC is working with pharmacy networks eTrueNorth and Walgreens on a pilot program to provide free testing of symptomatic persons in California and one other state initially that have confirmed H5N1 bird flu infections in people, poultry, or livestock.
The program aims to increase testing for seasonal flu and triage for H5 testing if needed, raise awareness about the symptoms and risk factors for infection with H5N1 bird flu among higher-risk populations, and determine whether certain rapid point-of-care (POC) tests identify influenza A-positive specimens when farm or dairy workers are infected with H5N1 bird flu.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with H5N1 bird flu.
To date, more than 5,000 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 240 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
Testing of exposed people who develop symptoms is happening at the state or local level, and CDC conducts confirmatory testing.
Since February 25, 2024, more than 53,000 specimens have been tested at public health labs that would have detected avian influenza A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses.
One of the specimens tested at a public health laboratory as a part of routine surveillance was identified as presumptive A(H5) positive and was confirmed as H5N1 positive by CDC.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's 2024-2025 influenza surveillance strategy, especially in areas where H5N1 bird flu viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people, including H5N1 bird flu viruses.
Outreach CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of H5N1 bird flu infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if people develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC also is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to farm workers in affected states this season.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 24,194,080 Spanish In-Feed 4,788,692 Instagram English In-Feed 7,273,007 Spanish In-Feed 499,130 Social Totals 36,754,909 Display Fusable English Display 8,194,968 Spanish Display 1,369,688 Display Totals 8,405,625 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 6,284,938 Spanish Audio + Display 2,231,529 Audio Totals 8,516,467 Language Totals English Language 45,946,993 Spanish Language 8,889,039 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 54,836,032 ON THIS PAGE Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 20, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
FluView EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods VIEW ALL View All Past Weekly Report For Everyone SEPT.
26, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW Past Reports Past Reports Past Reports Expand All 2024-2025 2023-2024 2022-2023 2021-2022 2020-2021 2019-2020 ON THIS PAGE Past Reports Past Reports RELATED PAGES Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report Key Updates for Week 35, ending August 30, 2025 Key Updates for Week 36, ending September 6, 2025 Key Updates for Week 37, ending September 13, 2025 Key Updates for Week 38, ending September 20, 2025 Weekly US Map: Influenza Summary Update VIEW ALL FluView Weekly US Map: Influenza Summary Update SOURCES PRINT SHARE FluView Weekly U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report View All Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 23, 2024 Syndromic Surveillance for New Users WHAT TO KNOW CDC wants to build a state-of-the art public health workforce.
To work with syndromic data, you’ll need to know what these data represent so your interpretation is accurate.
You’ll also need to understand the strengths and limitations of syndromic surveillance.
NSSP offers many avenues of support to acquire next-generation skills.
First steps for new users We recommend that all new users get connected with the syndromic surveillance community.
Collaboration is crucial to help us eliminate siloes and aid decision-making as we work together to protect our communities through improved readiness and response to health threats.
Site administrators work with NSSP to provide data access The BioSense Platform is a cloud-based early detection and monitoring system that integrates public health data from many sources.
To request access to the platform and its tools, reach out to the site administrator at your state or local health department.
They serve as liaisons between users and NSSP.
Site administrators can also answer questions and provide resources.
If more help is needed, you can also reach out to us at nssp@cdc.gov.
An excellent resource for new and current site administrators is the Ultimate Guide for Site Administrators.
Connect with others in the syndromic surveillance community We recommend that all news users join the NSSP Community of Practice and attend the monthly webinars.
You will have access to an extensive Knowledge Repository , as well as opportunities to network—including through the Slack® Workspace communication tool .
You can also subscribe to our newsletter, the NSSP Update, and explore our onboarding resources.
Technical resources available‎ Find tools to help you engage with NSSP platforms and grow your syndromic surveillance expertise—including job aids, manuals, data dictionaries, training, FAQs, and more.
Technical Resources More about syndromic surveillance Syndromic data are captured in near real-time.
Because of the immediacy of syndromic data, you’ll need a strong understanding of what these data represent so that your interpretation is accurate.
You’ll also need to understand the strengths and limitations of syndromic surveillance12 before integrating it fully into daily practice.
Syndromic surveillance training courses Public health professionals who have joined the NSSP Community of Practice are invited to access training offered in partnership with the Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE).
First, be sure to create a CSTE Learn account .
Introduction to Syndromic Surveillance Methodology –This curriculum-based, on-demand series explains how to use near real-time data, conceptualize new data applications, and act confidently on analyses.
Access ESSENCE training.
Rnssp R training The Rnssp R package facilitates access to ESSENCE via a secure and simple interface, with methods that streamline the data pull.
Please find Rnssp R training resources here: Posit Workbench and SAS Studio.
What others are doing One of our goals is to promote collaboration and best practices.
We often feature examples of what others are doing to advance syndromic surveillance: The Florida User Guide showcases how one jurisdiction leverages ESSENCE.
The CSTE site showcases syndromic surveillance activities across the nation .
ON THIS PAGE First steps for new users More about syndromic surveillance ESSENCE training Rnssp R training What others are doing RELATED PAGES About NSSP Community of Practice About NSSP and the BioSense Platform CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) CDC and Partner Dashboards SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 For Everyone OCT.
18, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's spotlight, CDC provides an update on the H5N1 bird flu outbreak in California and how CDC is supporting outreach to farmworkers and to the California Department of Public Health(CDPH).
Situation Update October 18, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, CDC, working with state public health departments, has confirmed avian influenza A(H5) infections in 27 people in the United States.
Nine of these cases were associated with exposure to H5N1 bird flu-infected poultry and 17 were associated with exposure to sick or infected dairy cows 12.
This includes 13 cases in California, seven of which were confirmed by CDC during the week of October 13, two of them on Friday, October 18.
All California cases have occurred in dairy workers on affected farms.
All available data so far suggests sporadic instances of animal-to-human spread.
The farm workers who were diagnosed with avian flu infections in California all described mild symptoms, many with eye redness or discharge (conjunctivitis).
None of the workers were hospitalized.
CDPH is monitoring hundreds of workers in affected counties, and any who develop symptoms are being tested; if the test is positive in the state lab, the sample is sent to CDC for confirmatory testing.
CDC is reporting confirmed cases, by state and source of exposure, in a table on its website, which is being updated three times weekly.
The source of the exposure in one case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, could not be determined.
Serological testing of the contacts of the Missouri case are pending.
To date, human-to-human transmission of avian influenza A(H5) virus has not been identified in the United States.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5N1 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
On the animal health side, since March 2024, USDA has confirmed infected cattle in 320 dairy herds in 14 U.S.
The number of affected herds continues to grow nationally, with almost all new infections identified in herds in California.
USDA reports that, since April 2024, there have been H5 detections in 38 commercial poultry flocks and 26 backyard flocks, for a total of 21.43 million birds affected.
Among other activities reported in previous spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update To date, CDC has confirmed 13 farm workers have been infected with H5N1 bird flu in California.
Genetic sequencing of six of these cases confirms that all are H5N1 viruses from clade 2.3.4.4b and that all are closely related genetically to the virus causing infections in domestic dairy cattle.
CDC has been able to sequence the full genomes of viruses detected in two cases from California (A/California/135/2024 and A/California/147/2024) and to confirm that both are B3.13 genotype viruses.
Specimens from four other California cases were partially sequenced.
That sequencing information showed no changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) associated with increased infectivity or transmissibility among people.
Additionally, there are no mutations associated with reduced susceptibility to available treatments (e.g., neuraminidase inhibitors or polymerase inhibitors) and no mutations identified in other genes indicating additional mammalian adaptation.
Genetic sequencing for those six cases has been posted in GISAID and GenBank .
Additional sequencing data will be posted as it becomes available.
CDC has successfully isolated virus from specimens from nine of the thirteen cases.
Attempts to isolate virus from additional specimens are ongoing.
Antigenic characterization and antiviral susceptibility testing are underway.
Antigenic characterization will inform whether existing H5 bird flu candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) provide good inhibition of these viruses.
Epidemiology Update At the invitation of the California Department of Public Health, CDC is deploying a multilingual epidemiological field team to assist efforts to learn more about how this outbreak began in California and how to lower risk to farm workers with exposure to infected cows.
Two staff are on the ground, and additional staff are ready to deploy if needed.
CDC staff are assisting with active surveillance efforts, including field assessments of suspected cases and household contacts; testing and treatment; and dissemination of information to farm workers and the community.
Surveillance Update CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with H5N1 bird flu.
To date, more than 5,100 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 260 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing..
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
In addition, since February 25, 2024, more than 54,000 specimens have been tested for avian A(H5) or other novel influenza viruses at public health labs.
One of the specimens, collected as a part of routine surveillance, was identified as presumptive A(H5) positive and was confirmed as H5N1 positive by CDC.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's 2024-2025 influenza surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people.
Outreach Update CDC has posted a Spanish-language collection of videos aimed at informing the U.S.
public in general, and U.S.
farm workers in particular, about H5N1 bird flu – what it is, how to prevent it, and what to do if they develop symptoms.
English-language versions of the videos were first posted in September.
The videos, each under a minute long and available on YouTube, answer commonly asked questions, such as "Who is at risk for getting H5N1 bird flu?", "How can I protect myself from getting H5N1 bird flu?", and "What do I do if I get H5N1 bird flu?" CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of H5N1 bird flu infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if people develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC also is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to farm workers in affected states this season.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation, and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 25,210,865 Spanish In-Feed 5,091,113 Instagram English In-Feed 7,451,562 Spanish In-Feed 522,774 Social Totals 38,276,314 Display Fusable English Display 8,601,254 Spanish Display 1,424,356 Display Totals 10,025,600 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 6,508,175 Spanish Audio + Display 2,389,767 Audio Totals 8,897,942 Language Totals English Language 47,771,856 Spanish Language 9,428,000 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 57,199,856 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update September 27, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 For Everyone OCT.
29, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's spotlight, CDC reports six confirmed human cases of H5 bird flu in Washington state as well as three more cases in California for a total of 36 cases in the United States, and shares updated results of ongoing outreach efforts.
Situation Update October 29, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, CDC, working with state public health departments, has confirmed H5 bird flu infections in 36 people in the United States.
Fifteen of these cases were associated with exposure to H5N1 bird flu-infected poultry and 20 were associated with exposure to sick or infected dairy cows12.
The source of the exposure in one case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, could not be determined.
Serological testing of the contacts of the Missouri case have been reported, and that investigation has concluded.
The 36 cases include 16 cases in California, three of which were confirmed last week.
CDC also confirmed six human cases of H5 bird flu in poultry farm workers in Washington state last week.
These are the first cases of H5 bird flu in Washington.
Testing of additional specimens from Washington is ongoing.
Cases in California and Washington have occurred in workers on affected farms.
All available data so far suggest sporadic instances of animal-to-human spread.
The farm workers in California and Washington state all described mild symptoms, many with eye redness or discharge (conjunctivitis).
Some cases in Washington reported some mild upper respiratory symptoms.
None of the workers were hospitalized.
Updated case counts, including by state and source of exposure, are reflected in a table on CDC's website.
To date, person-to-person spread of H5 bird flu has not been identified in the United States.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
On the animal health side, since March 2024, USDA has confirmed infected cattle in 387 dairy herds in 14 U.S.
The number of affected herds continues to grow nationally, with almost all new infections identified in herds in California.
USDA reports that, since April 2024, there have been H5 detections in 39 commercial poultry flocks and 28 backyard flocks, for a total of 22.23 million birds affected.
Among other activities reported in previous spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update To date, CDC has confirmed infection of 16 farm workers with H5N1 bird flu in California.
Genetic sequencing of nine of these cases confirms that all are H5N1 viruses from clade 2.3.4.4b and that all are closely related genetically to the virus causing infections in domestic dairy cattle.
CDC has sequenced the full genomes of viruses detected in four cases from California (A/California/135/2024, A/California/147/2024, A/California/152/2024, and A/California/153/2024) and confirmed that all are B3.13 genotype viruses.
Various gene sequences were successfully obtained from specimens from five other California cases.
That sequencing information showed no changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) associated with increased infectivity or transmissibility among people.
Additionally, there were no mutations associated with reduced susceptibility to available antiviral treatments (e.g., neuraminidase inhibitors or polymerase acid endonuclease inhibitors) and no mutations identified in other genes indicating additional mammalian adaptation.
Genetic data have been posted in GISAID and GenBank .
Additional data will be posted as they become available.
CDC has successfully isolated virus from specimens from nine of the 16 cases.
Attempts to isolate virus from additional specimens are ongoing.
Antigenic characterization and antiviral susceptibility testing are underway.
Antigenic characterization will inform whether existing H5 bird flu candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) would provide good inhibition of these viruses.
On Thursday, October 24, CDC posted a spotlight describing the results of serology testing for evidence of prior infection with H5N1 bird flu in blood samples provided by seven people in Missouri.
Efforts to isolate and sequence viruses from specimens from the Washington cases are in progress, and sequencing information will be reported and posted to public databases when available.
Epidemiology Update A multilingual CDC field team continues to assist the California Department of Public Health in its efforts to learn more about how this outbreak in California began and how to lower the risk to farm workers with exposure to infected cows.
Two staff are on the ground, and additional staff are ready to deploy if needed.
CDC staff are assisting with active surveillance efforts, including field assessments of suspected cases and household contacts; testing and treatment; and dissemination of information to farm workers and the community.
CDC also deployed a separate multilingual field team to Washington state to assist the local health district with monitoring activities related to depopulation of an infected poultry farm, including on-site symptom screening, testing of workers coming on shift, and provision of oseltamivir.
The three CDC staff worked with local epidemiologists on data management, epidemiological summaries, and case and contact investigations.
There is no evidence of any person-to-person spread in either of the two states or anywhere in the United States.
Surveillance Update On Wednesday, October 23, CDC received specimens from multiple presumptive positive cases of H5 bird flu in poultry farm workers in Washington state.
As noted above, CDC has so far confirmed six cases in Washington.
Testing of additional specimens is pending.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with H5N1 bird flu.
To date, more than 6,100 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 300 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
In addition, since February 25, 2024, more than 55,000 specimens have been tested for avian influenza A(H5) virus or other novel influenza viruses at public health labs.
One of the specimens, collected as a part of routine surveillance, was identified as presumptive positive for avian influenza A(H5) virus and was confirmed as H5N1 bird flu positive by CDC.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's 2024-2025 influenza surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of H5N1 bird flu infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if people develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC also is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to farm workers in affected states this season.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 26,322,130 Spanish In-Feed 5,422,472 Instagram English In-Feed 7,694,694 Spanish In-Feed 567,243 Social Totals 40,007,539 Display Fusable English Display 9,305,925 Spanish Display 1,600,404 Display Totals 10,906,329 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 6,786,448 Spanish Audio + Display 2,561,892 Audio Totals 9,348,340 Language Totals English Language 49,831,924 Spanish Language 9,979,886 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 59,811,810 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 1, 2024 CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 11, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All BioSense Platform Public Health JUNE 10, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW The BioSense Platform is a cloud-based early detection and monitoring system that helps the public health community protect Americans from injuries, emerging diseases, and environmental disasters.
This investment in syndromic surveillance can improve readiness and response to health threats.
A shared resource NSSP supports syndromic surveillance practice through the BioSense Platform, a secure integrated electronic health information system.
Standardized analytic tools and processes enable the public health community to detect, characterize, monitor, and respond to events of concern.
Data are collected in near real-time and available in the platform as early as 24 hours after a patient’s visit to a participating facility.
Quick link Registered users can access BioSense Platform tools through the Access & Management Center.
Log in now The BioSense Platform is a product of CDC, but it’s a shared resource.
Facilities and vendors that submit data play a key role.
Users who access data are equally important.
Helping manage all this are site administrators—the public health authority liaisons who help connect users and data-submitting organizations with NSSP.
Site administrators provide access, set up data data-sharing rules, onboard new facilities and conduct surveillance activities.
They also inform users of new program guidance, publications, and tools.
First steps for new users Get onboarding information BioSense Platform tools The BioSense Platform tools support syndromic surveillance practice for analysts, epidemiologists, and others across all levels of public health.
The platform hosts web-based tools for advanced analytics and visualizations, data sharing and integration.
Access is provided through site administrators.
Reach out to them directly if you can.
Another option is to contact your state or local health department or email us at nssp@cdc.gov.
ESSENCE ESSENCE allows users to collaborate; investigate changes in trends; and analyze, visualize and share data.
The tool—also known as the Electronic Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community based Epidemics—helps operationalize the public health surveillance workflow.
Get ESSENCE guides and other resources.
Posit Workbench/RStudio Posit Workbench lets users access and analyze SQL data stored on the BioSense Platform.
Posit is the tool formerly known as RStudio.
Activities include validating data within the archive (raw, processed, and exceptions tables), confirming information in the Master Facility Table, and extracting data directly from ESSENCE using an application programming interface.
Get Posit Workbench guides and other resources.
NSSP Dashboards and Visualizations The following dashboards are available in the BioSense Platform: Coronavirus Exploratory Dashboard Jurisdictional Data Quality Dashboard Jurisdictional Data Quality Dashboard (Onboarding) Jurisdictional Data Quality Dashboard v2 Laboratory Data Quality Dashboard NSSP PRESS is also available, a tool that enables dynamic sharing of information between NSSP and sites.
Data interoperability The BioSense Platform has been built on NSSP’s commitment to data interoperability.
We want to ensure information is shared appropriately between health care and public health partners in the right format, through the right channel, at the right time.
We encourage users to follow the same standards and processes and, in many instances, use the same tools to collect, analyze, and transmit data.
NSSP participants play a key role in setting up and maintaining high-quality data feeds.
They follow syndromic surveillance messaging specifications, available on the NSSP Onboarding Resources page, to ensure adherence to Public Health Information Network standards.
Most follow the rules set up by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to incentivize the use of electronic health records.
Background The BioSense Platform evolved in response to congressional mandates in the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, Pub.
ON THIS PAGE A shared resource BioSense Platform tools Data interoperability Background RELATED PAGES About NSSP Community of Practice Syndromic Surveillance for New Users CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Syndromic Surveillance for New Users SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
FluView EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Influenza Surveillance: Purpose and Methods VIEW ALL View All SEPTEMBER 6, 2024 Weekly US Map: Influenza Summary Update PURPOSE A Weekly Influenza Surveillance Report Prepared by the Influenza Division.
Weekly Influenza Surveillance Report SOURCES PRINT SHARE FluView Weekly U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report View All Current Week: U.S.
Influenza Surveillance Report U.S.
Supplement August 26, 2005 / 54(Suppl);141-146 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Syndromic Surveillance on the Epidemiologist's Desktop: Making Sense of Much Data Kathy J.
Hurt-Mullen,1 J.
Coberly2 1Montgomery County Department of Health and Human Services, Silver Spring, Maryland; 2Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, Maryland Corresponding author: Kathy J.
Hurt-Mullen, Montgomery County Department of Health and Human Services, 2000 Dennis Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20902.
Telephone: 240-777-1643; Fax: 240-777-4750; E-mail: Kathy.Hurt-Mullen@montgomerycountymd.gov.
Disclosure of relationship: The contributors of this report have disclosed that they have no financial interest, relationship, affiliation, or other association with any organization that might represent a conflict of interest.
In addition, this report does not contain any discussion of unlabeled use of commercial products or products for investigational use.
Abstract Introduction: Syndromic surveillance systems are becoming increasingly common in health departments.
These systems represent a substantial improvement in the timeliness of ascertainment of community health status.
For the value of such systems to be realized, protocols are needed for review and analysis of the findings that these systems produce.
Methods: A workgroup of experienced syndromic surveillance users and developers was convened to discuss approaches to data review and analyses.
The discussion was structured to include general principles of the use of syndromic surveillance; how and why specific data are reviewed; integration of multiple data sources; daily versus research uses of systems; how data anomalies are identified by users and surveillance systems; the relative merits of anomalies; how a data anomaly is investigated to determine if it warrants a public health response; and how such a public health response should be framed.
Results: From this discussion, a generalized and more detailed process was documented that describes the common elements of analysis used by the workgroup participants.
Conclusion: Establishment of a framework for evaluation and response to syndromic surveillance data will facilitate the implementation of these systems and standardization of procedures for validation of system findings.
Careful development of an evaluation and response framework should be undertaken to assess whether use of syndromic surveillance systems requires excess work to distinguish between statistical anomalies and important public health events.
Introduction Although initially conceived to assist public health officials in detecting occurrence of intentional disease outbreaks (i.e., those caused by a biologic terrorist attack), syndromic surveillance systems are becoming a basic tool for public health epidemiologists.
The increased sensitivity provided by multiple data sources requires users to review and summarize an unprecedented amount of data daily.
Clear guidelines for using these systems are needed to help epidemiologists 1) quickly identify and disregard statistically significant but epidemiologically unimportant events, 2) distinguish true disease clusters from groups of unrelated cases, 3) determine which true disease clusters warrant further evaluation or public health response, and 4) perform these tasks quickly and cost effectively.
The Montgomery County (Maryland) Department of Health and Human Services (MCDHHS) has been using the Electronic Surveillance System for Early Notification of Community-Based Epidemics (ESSENCE) syndromic surveillance system continuously since spring 2001.
This report describes a framework for daily evaluation of ESSENCE data that was developed jointly by staff from MCDHHS and the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (JHU/APL).
This framework can be generalized for use with other electronic syndromic surveillance systems.
Methods The framework for using the ESSENCE system presented in this report is based on the experience of the authors gained through daily use of the MCDHHS ESSENCE system and on a structured discussion with 10 syndromic surveillance systems users and persons with expertise that was designed to collect qualitative information on how public health professionals use ESSENCE.
Participants included representatives of state health agencies in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia; civilian and military users of ESSENCE; and members of the JHU/APL ESSENCE development team.
Topics discussed included general principles of the use of syndromic surveillance; how and why specific data are reviewed; integration of multiple data sources; daily versus research uses of the systems; how data anomalies are identified by users and by the surveillance systems; the relative merits of anomalies; how a data anomaly is investigated to determine if it warrants a public health response; and how such a public health response should be framed.
Comments on how and why syndromic surveillance is used were also provided by representatives of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene after a review of the meeting notes.
Syndromic surveillance systems such as ESSENCE are intended to identify higher-than-expected counts of visits to EDs or physicians' offices, retail sales of pharmaceutical products, or other similar events grouped into broad syndromic categories.
These increases are assumed to represent increases in disease incidence.
Syndromic surveillance systems can identify certain health events that are of sufficient concern that a single occurrence warrants a public health response (e.g., the collection of additional data when certain rashes appear among persons in particular age groups or with certain neurologic complaints).
Those procedures and public health responses are not considered in this report.
Results Use of Syndromic Surveillance Data Epidemiologists use syndromic surveillance systems for multiple purposes.
Because these systems collect and store longitudinal disease incidence data, epidemiologists can use them to trace disease patterns over time, describe patterns of disease in the community geographically and demographically at any given time, and determine the impact of specific targeted health interventions.
These systems most commonly are used for early detection of changes in a community's health status that might represent a public health emergency.
A protocol is followed to detect and analyze the importance of anomalies in the data (Figure 1).
Anomaly Detection All syndromic surveillance systems use a statistical algorithm to determine whether the number of reports for a specific syndrome exceeds the norm for the community and then to alert the user that a statistically significant increase has occurred.
However, important health events can be detected in other ways.
Syndromic surveillance systems enable epidemiologists to systematically monitor disease trends and identify suspicious clusters of disease.
Epidemiologists also receive information about unusual disease clusters or incidence from local health-care providers, which they then can evaluate in the surveillance system.
Both system- and operator-generated alerts are considered to be of equal value.
Anomaly detection presents jurisdictional challenges that should be accommodated in developing response guidelines.
Although public health officials have obligations associated with defined geographic boundaries, neither the movement of persons nor the distribution of illness is so limited.
Anomaly detection should be conducted at multiple levels (local, regional, state, and possibly federal) to capture anomalies that might remain undetected within any single jurisdiction.
Characterization of Anomalies Anomalies should be described fully to determine whether they are likely to represent an important public health event that requires a public health response.
The anomaly should be described with respect to person, place, and time by using whatever demographic and geographic information is available.
In addition, available clinical data (e.g., chief complaint and discharge diagnosis and disposition) should be evaluated and summarized.
In certain cases, additional information (e.g., laboratory test requests or results or detailed ED admission data) might be available to further characterize the anomaly.
Validation of Anomaly Once the epidemiologist is convinced that an anomaly represents a true cluster of similar health events, whether the anomaly is expected or unusual should be determined.
Normal seasonal and temporal syndrome and disease trends should be reviewed.
Influenza-like illness is easily spotted in the majority of syndromic surveillance systems.
An increase in disease causes regular statistical alerts in established syndrome groups as illness spreads through the community.
Because this increase is expected each winter, the anomaly does not require further evaluation efforts.
Similarly, environmental factors should be considered.
For example, seasonal increases in pollen generate increases in respiratory illness, which might cause statistical alerts in surveillance systems even though these events are expected.
If more than one source of data is available within a system, then part of the validation effort should be to ascertain whether corroboration is expected in those sources and whether it exists.
Assessing Public Health Importance of Findings Once an anomaly is fully characterized, its public health importance should be considered.
First, the magnitude and continuity of the increase generating the anomaly should be evaluated in the context of the particular syndrome group in question.
Regardless of statistical significance, a substantial 1-day increase warrants more scrutiny than a limited one; similarly, a relatively modest increase during multiple days that deviates from known seasonal and historic patterns also should be evaluated closely.
In each of these instances, the size of the actual increase is characterized by the nature of known patterns of the data source and syndrome being evaluated; these considerations require an understanding of the usual frequency distribution for the particular event of concern.
Certain signals can be expected and, when detected, are of less concern, especially when the public health response is well established (e.g., the beginning of the influenza season and winter increases in cases of viral gastroenteritis).
However, observations of such anomalies at other times of the year, or when frequency is much different than expected or presentations more severe, are more likely to represent important public health events.
Other Factors of Importance The majority of syndromic surveillance systems collect multiple streams of data to be evaluated as indicators of changes in the health status of the populations they monitor.
Each data stream has unique attributes that must be understood to estimate the value of the results they produce.
Chief among these attributes is the lag time between the occurrence of an event and the time it is available to the system for anomaly detection.
Another critical attribute is the clinical value of the data.
ED data, for example, convey important information about clinical encounters when chief complaint data are coded into syndromes.
However, ED data are more clinically valid when the syndromes are coded on the basis of discharge diagnoses, as physician office visit data are coded.
In determining the attributes of a system with these data sources, the user should be aware of the timing of the coding efforts and the change in lag time introduced by the coding effort.
Data on OTC pharmaceutical sales can be available quickly but have less clinical value than encounter data sources.
Whether the data source provides individual level data to allow scrutiny at that level to characterize and validate any changes detected also should be considered.
On the basis of these attributes, identifying a single data stream within the system to serve as the principal indicator of changes in community health status might be desirable; remaining data sets can be relied on as secondary sets that are used to corroborate findings in the primary stream or to assist in refining hypotheses when indications of important changes are observed in the primary data set.
A process flow chart (Figure 2) can be used to illustrate how evaluation and response might proceed with a system that has designated a primary, individual encounter--based data source.
Discussion Syndromic surveillance is emerging as a practical tool for public health epidemiologists.
Procedures for evaluation of data provided to public health practitioners through syndromic surveillance systems will necessarily vary based on the system in place and the jurisdiction in which it operates.
However, to facilitate identification and response to important public health events, users believe that standardized evaluation and response strategies should be developed and adopted by all public health practitioners.
A step-by-step evaluation strategy (Figure 2) can be used for evaluation of any individual-encounter based surveillance data source (i.e., ED chief complaints, hospital discharge codes, and call-center encounters).
The process should begin with an evaluation of data completeness and with efforts to either complete the data set or limit the analytical data set to one which is as complete as possible.
Proceeding then from general evaluations of incidence and aberration patterns to more specific ones (e.g., from the all-encounter level to age-group syndrome evaluations), all anomalies should be analyzed to identify usual and expected patterns for consistency of presenting complaints; age, sex, and geographic-distribution; and severity of illness as indicated by discharge dispositions and diagnoses (when data are available).
When possible, historic comparisons (e.g., with the same period in previous years or seasons) should be evaluated.
Finally, consideration should be made of whether an unusual but modest change in patterns has persisted for longer than can be explained or whether an increase is simply too large to dismiss as a random occurrence.
These information-gathering tasks are the same as those conducted in the early stages of conventional outbreak investigations.
Although this framework is intended to assist public health practitioners in distinguishing between statistical anomalies and anomalies of public health concern, the work required parallels that of a typical outbreak investigation.
Both processes have the same objective: to determine whether the appearance of an outbreak is, in fact, an outbreak (Table).
The majority of the tasks in the proposed evaluation framework overlap, which is often the case in outbreak investigation as well.
Ideally, the surveillance system will allow for the routine and automated collection of the data required for completion of these tasks (e.g., clarification of clinical complaints, determination of existence of the anomaly, creation of a case definition, scrutiny for other similar cases, and descriptive epidemiology work).
This will serve to ease both the burden and costs of the efforts.
The majority of anomalies will require no more consideration than can be made systematically by using information routinely available to users through the system.
As such, the distinction between evaluation and response becomes less clear, and response can be thought of as something that, in most cases, can be determined easily from the epidemiologist's work station.
The evaluation of the data is, in effect, a limited investigative response that either can support the need to proceed to field work or indicate that the anomaly is not important in a public health sense.
If the results of this descriptive work fail to rule out the existence of an event of public health concern, syndromic surveillance systems can provide data to support epidemiologic studies (e.g., case-control studies) to evaluate findings further.
Depending on the implementation of particular systems, cases and controls can be distinguished from one another with respect to time of the event, distribution of particular chief complaint keywords, or discharge diagnoses within interesting clusters.
The move to field work also requires a considered, step-by-step approach.
The level of effort required depends on the particular features of the anomaly.
The response could be as simple as a telephone consultation with a health-care provider or a review of ED record face sheets.
Rarely, a response might require the full effort of an outbreak investigation.
Evaluation work should be conducted by staff members who have sufficient experience with the data to be familiar with fluctuations in incidence attributable to common variation and who have training to support their interpretation of the statistics employed for anomaly detection.
Furthermore, evaluation work should be assigned to staff members who understand the demographic features of the community, its habits, and current activities or events because these factors can influence the appearance of anomalies in the absence of a real shift in the health status of the community.
Often, responsibility for community-level evaluations should be assigned to health officials in local health departments, and responsibility for region- or statewide evaluations should be assigned to officials in those jurisdictions.
Evaluation and response strategies need not be materially different at these levels, but communication of findings and required response should be communicated and monitored across all levels.
Conclusion Establishment of a framework for evaluation and response to syndromic surveillance data will facilitate the implementation of these systems and standardization of procedures for validation of system findings.
The framework presented in this report was developed on the basis of the experience of a substantial number of users of multiple systems and may be generalized for use in other systems and jurisdictions.
Evaluating data at the local, regional, and state levels might ensure that officials with local awareness will evaluate changes detected in the context of current events and demographics and that increases that occur across jurisdictional boundaries are detected and coordinated by appropriate officials.
Finally, careful development of an evaluation and response framework should be undertaken to assess whether use of syndromic surveillance systems requires excess work to distinguish between statistical anomalies and important public health events.
Acknowledgments The findings in this report are based in part on contributions by the following ESSENCE users in the National Capital Region: Sheryl Happel Lewis, Rekha Holtry, Steve Babin, and other JHU/APL staff.
Financial support for portions of this work was provided by the National Association of City and County Health Officials Advanced Practice Center program.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone NOVEMBER 1, 2024 ESPAÑOL CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results WHAT TO KNOW The results of CDC's first study looking at the effects on ferrets of an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from a human case in Texas have been published in Nature.
CDC first shared preliminary findings from this study, which were instrumental in informing early risk assessments related to this outbreak, in June 2024.
Ferrets are used as a model to assess the disease and spread characteristics of specific influenza (flu) viruses in people.
The initial study was subsequently replicated to confirm the findings, and this publication summarizes all the findings from the ferret experiments using the isolate from the case human case in Texas.
Results of subsequent similar studies using different viruses from the same outbreak have differed.
Summary of cumulative findings These ferret study findings are now available in the peer reviewed literature in Nature .
The study used an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus from the first human case associated with the current outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle and poultry, which occurred in Texas (A/Texas/37/2024).
That virus caused severe illness and death in 100% of infected ferrets causing more severe disease compared to other avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses in the same genetic group isolated prior to the 2024 dairy cow outbreaks.
This also is different from what is seen with seasonal influenza viruses, which make ferrets sick, but are not fatal to ferrets.
The A/Texas/37/2024 virus spread efficiently between ferrets in direct contact (100%) but did not spread efficiently between ferrets via respiratory droplets (i.e., droplets containing virus released into the air from coughs or sneezes) or by fomites (i.e., contaminated surfaces) (66%).
This is different from what is seen with seasonal influenza viruses, which do spread efficiently via respiratory droplets and fomites in ferrets (100%).
Results from this ferret study helped inform CDC's early risk assessments of the potential impact of these viruses on human health.
The results suggest this virus has the potential to cause severe illness in people and reinforce the importance of protective measures among people with exposure to infected animals and for public health and agriculture communities to continue to work together to contain this outbreak.
The preliminary results of this study reported in June 2024, are available at CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results | Bird Flu | CDC.
CDC researchers used a ferret model 1to better understand the severity of illness and efficiency of transmission of A/Texas/37/2024, the avian influenza A(H5N1) virus isolated from a sick dairy cow worker in Texas on April 1, 2024.
This was the first human case associated with the ongoing multistate outbreak of H5 bird flu among dairy cows and poultry.
CDC researchers subsequently repeated parts of the study using additional animals to confirm the findings.
(Like humans, different ferrets can respond differently to infection, and some ferrets may spread more virus than others.
This is why a series of experiments are conducted and the results are combined.) Severity of Disease Similar to the preliminary results in six ferrets, all six infected ferrets in confirmatory testing experienced severe disease and died, highlighting the potential for this virus to cause severe disease in humans.
The results are consistent with findings from other studies of ferrets infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, including two published studies conducted during the past year.
Ferrets infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses from mink in Spain (A/mink/Spain/3691-8_22VIR10586-10/2022 ) and from a person in Chile (A/Chile/25945/2023 ) had severe illness that was either fatal or required euthanasia.
However, subsequent studies at CDC using A(H5N1) viruses from Michigan, have differed, with ferrets experiencing milder illness.
None of the ferrets infected with the A/Michigan/90/2024 virus died or had to be euthanized because of severe illness.
Spread via Direct Contact The initial study found that the A/Texas/37/2024 virus spread easily among ferrets (3 of 3 ferrets, or 100%) in direct contact with infected ferrets placed in the same enclosure.
Spread via Respiratory Droplets The virus was less capable of spreading by respiratory droplets compared to seasonal influenza viruses.
This was tested by placing infected ferrets in enclosures next to healthy ferrets (with shared air but without direct contact).
In that situation, 4 of 6 ferrets (66%) became infected, and there was a one- or two-day delay in transmission with the A/Texas/37/2024 virus compared to transmission with seasonal influenza viruses.
The observed capacity of avian influenza A(H5) virus to transmit via respiratory droplets in ferrets has not been frequently reported in the past.
The last time this level of transmission was observed was a ferret study done on A/Hong Kong/486/97, an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus isolated from a human in 1997.
That study also found respiratory droplet spread occurred in 2 of the 3 ferrets (66%).
The older 1997 avian influenza A(H5N1) virus did not result in efficient spread among people, and person-to-person spread has not been observed with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses since 2007.
This suggests that A/Texas/37/2024-like viruses would need to undergo changes to spread efficiently by droplets through the air, such as from coughs and sneezes like in the way seasonal influenza viruses spread.
Spread via Fomites These ferret experiments also tested the ability of the virus to spread in a fomite transmission model (contaminated surfaces).
When healthy ferrets were placed in a contaminated cage (with contaminated bedding, food, water, etc.), 1 out of 3 became infected.
With a seasonal influenza virus, 3 out of 3 ferrets were positive in the fomite transmission model.
Exhaled Virus Measurements The ferret experiments also measured the amount of virus exhaled from infected ferrets into the air.
Ferrets infected with A/Texas/37/2004 exhaled comparatively more virus into the air than was observed with A/Michigan/90/2024 and A/Chile/25945/2023 .
Genetic Characteristics of the Virus The A/Texas/37/2024 virus is a genetic outlier of this group of avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses.
It has two mammalian adaptive mutations not seen in the other A(H5N1) viruses that have been genetically sequenced in association with the current outbreak in dairy cows.
Sequencing showed changes in two polymerase proteins, the PB2 gene at position E627K and the PA gene at position K142E: The polymerase PB2 E627K mutation has been previously identified to cause greater virus replication in mammals and more severe disease.
The polymerase PA K142E gene change has been previously associated with enhanced virulence in mammalian hosts when combined with the PB2-627 mutation.
Changes like those seen in the A/Texas/37/2024 virus may help the virus replicate better in mammals and humans.
The results of these experiments were used to inform an ongoing, broader CDC-led influenza risk assessment (IRAT) on A/Texas/37/2024.
Limitations of ferret experiments For decades, CDC has conducted these types of studies to inform risk assessments of influenza viruses with pandemic potential.
The use of robust and genetically diverse animal models as subjects is preferred in many areas of research.
The ferrets used in our studies are outbred (bred to have genetic diversity) animals whose response to influenza virus infection is generally very similar to that of humans; therefore, it is expected that there will be some variability in disease outcomes and immune responses.
This is why the experiments were repeated.
The major benefit of using an outbred ferret model is that it better mimics the human population, which is genetically diverse.
The conclusions obtained from studies using outbred animal models are more representative and generalizable across different experimental conditions and populations.
Even as a well-documented and commonly used research model for human illness and transmission, there are limitations to ferret experiments.
Animals did not possess any antibodies to influenza A virus before infection, so this does not capture any potential/unknown contributions of pre-existing immunity that may be present in human populations at large.
Ferrets in this study were deliberately administered a large quantity of virus.
While the virus is transmitted in the respiratory droplet model when administered in a large quantity, it's unclear whether similar transmission levels would be observed following lower amounts of virus.
The conclusions obtained from studies using outbred animal models are more representative and generalizable across different experimental conditions and populations.
The number of animals used in the studies could be considered a limitation; however, CDC researchers comply with the 3Rs (Replace, Reduce, Refine) principles that govern ethical and humane animal research.
Therefore, CDC studies use only the smallest possible number of animals necessary to meet research goals.
Conclusion and risk assessment Overall, the cumulative results of studies in ferrets using the A(H5N1) virus from a human case in Texas suggest the virus still is not capable of spreading efficiently among people via respiratory droplets compared to seasonal influenza viruses.
These findings highlight the importance of continued surveillance to monitor these kinds of changes in circulating A(H5N1) viruses.
More information on ferret studies is available at CDC Reports A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results | Bird Flu | CDC.
ON THIS PAGE Summary of cumulative findings Limitations of ferret experiments Conclusion and risk assessment RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC Expands H5N1 Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers from Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 1, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 18, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 4, 2024 For Everyone NOV.
4, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's spotlight, CDC highlights a report from USDA that describes the first case of H5 bird flu in a pig in the United States and shares updated results of ongoing outreach efforts.
Also, CDC reports confirmation of two new human cases of H5 bird flu in Washington state, four new cases in California, and one case associated with the Washington poultry outbreak that is pending jurisdiction assignment for a total of 44 confirmed cases in the United States.
Situation Update November 4, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, CDC, working with state public health departments, has confirmed H5 bird flu infections in 44 people in the United States.
The source of the exposure in one case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, could not be determined.
Serological testing of the contacts of the Missouri case have been reported, and that investigation has concluded.
The 44 cases include 20 cases in dairy farm workers in California, three of which were confirmed by CDC last week and three on Monday, November 4; nine cases in poultry farm workers in Washington state, three of which were confirmed by CDC last week; and one case associated with the Washington poultry outbreak that was confirmed by CDC last week and is pending jurisdiction assignment.
Not included in that count are four probable cases -- one in a California dairy farm worker and three in Washington state poultry farm workers.
While these probable cases were negative on confirmatory testing at CDC, all four met the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) probable case definition and have been reported by the states.
Cases in California and Washington have occurred in workers on affected farms.
All available data so far suggest sporadic instances of animal-to-human spread.
The farm workers in California and Washington state all described mild symptoms, many with eye redness or discharge (conjunctivitis).
Some workers who tested positive in Washington reported some mild upper respiratory symptoms.
None of the workers were hospitalized.
Updated case counts, including by state and source of exposure, are reflected in a table on CDC's website.
To date, person-to-person spread of H5 bird flu has not been identified in the United States.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
On the animal health side, since March 2024, USDA has confirmed infected cattle in 440 dairy herds in 15 U.S.
The number of affected herds continues to grow nationally, with almost all new infections identified in herds in California.
USDA reports that, since April 2024, there have been H5 detections in 45 commercial poultry flocks and 30 backyard flocks, for a total of 22.37 million birds affected.
Among other activities reported in previous spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update CDC posted a spotlight describing the results of CDC's first study investigating the effects in ferrets of an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus isolated from a human case in the United States.
The study , published on October 28 in the journal Nature, found that when 12 laboratory ferrets were infected with a virus isolated from a human case in Texas (A/Texas/37/2024), all 12 experienced severe and fatal disease.
The study also found that this virus efficiently transmitted from infected ferrets to healthy ferrets in the presence of direct contact and, less efficiently, via fomites and respiratory droplets.
Preliminary findings from this study, first shared in June 2024, were instrumental in informing early risk assessments related to this outbreak.
To date, CDC has confirmed nine human cases of H5 bird flu in poultry farm workers in Washington state.
Genetic sequencing of three of these cases confirms that all are avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses from clade 2.3.4.4b and that all are closely related genetically to the viruses causing infections in poultry on the farm where depopulation was conducted.
CDC has successfully obtained partial gene sequences for viruses from three cases in Washington (A/Washington/239/2024, A/Washington/240/2024, A/Washington/247/2024) with other cases pending sequence analysis.
That sequencing information showed that the viruses' hemagglutinin (HA) is closely related to candidate vaccine viruses (CVV) and that there were no changes in the HA associated with increased infectivity or transmissibility among people.
Additionally, there were no mutations associated with reduced susceptibility to available neuraminidase inhibitor treatments and no mutations identified in other genes indicating additional mammalian adaptation.
Genetic data have been posted in GISAID and GenBank .
Additional data will be posted as they become available.
CDC has successfully isolated virus from specimens from three of the nine cases.
Attempts to isolate virus from additional specimens are ongoing.
Antigenic characterization and antiviral susceptibility testing are underway.
Antigenic characterization will inform whether existing H5 bird flu candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs) would provide good inhibition of these viruses.
Epidemiology Update On Wednesday, October 30, 2024, USDA reported an avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infection in a pig on a backyard farm in Oregon.
This is the first time an H5 bird flu infection has been reported in a pig in the United States.
Sequence data from birds in the avian influenza A(H5) virus outbreak on this backyard farm showed no mutations that caused concerns related to disease severity or adaptability to humans.
The discovery that an avian influenza A virus has infected a new mammal species is always concerning, especially when the virus is detected in pigs, which are susceptible to influenza viruses circulating in pigs, humans, birds, and other species.
These viruses can swap genes through a process called genetic reassortment, which can occur when two (or more) influenza viruses infect a single host.
Reassortment can result in the emergence of new influenza A viruses with new or different properties, such as the ability to spread more easily among animals or people.
Reassortment events have happened in pigs in the past.
A series of reassortment events in pigs is believed to have caused the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic.
Based on available information, the risk to the general public remains low; however, CDC is continuing to gather information.
A multilingual CDC field team continues to assist the California Department of Public Health in its efforts to learn more about how the outbreak in California began and how to lower the risk to farm workers with exposure to infected cows.
Two staff members are on the ground in California, and additional staff are ready to deploy if needed.
CDC staff are assisting with active surveillance efforts, including field assessments of suspected cases and household contacts; testing and treatment; and dissemination of information to farm workers and the community.
A separate CDC field team has returned from deployment to Washington state but continues to work remotely with the local health department on data management and epidemiological summaries.
There is no evidence of any person-to-person spread in either of the two states or anywhere in the United States.
Surveillance Update As noted above, CDC has so far confirmed nine cases in Washington.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with H5N1 bird flu.
To date, more than 6,700 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 340 people who have developed flu-like symptoms have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
In addition, since February 25, 2024, more than 57,000 specimens have been tested for avian influenza A(H5) virus or other novel influenza viruses at public health labs.
One of the specimens, collected as a part of routine surveillance, was identified as presumptive positive for avian influenza A(H5) virus and was confirmed as H5N1 bird flu positive by CDC.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's 2024-2025 influenza surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people.
Outreach Update CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of H5N1 bird flu infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if people develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC also is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to farm workers in affected states this season.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 27,427,065 Spanish In-Feed 5,752,017 Instagram English In-Feed 8,042,744 Spanish In-Feed 620,857 Social Totals 41,842,683 Display Fusable English Display 10,053,919 Spanish Display 1,672,825 Display Totals 11,726,744 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 7,044,987 Spanish Audio + Display 2,733,364 Audio Totals 9,778,351 Language Totals English Language 52,568,715 Spanish Language 10,779,063 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 63,347,778 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 CDC Expands H5N1 Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers from Bird Flu CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update October 29, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Supplement September 24, 2004 / 53(Suppl);5-11 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Overview of Syndromic Surveillance What is Syndromic Surveillance?
Henning New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York Corresponding author: Kelly J.
Henning, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 125 Worth Street, CN-6, New York, NY 10013.
Telephone: 212-788-0234; Fax: 212-788-4473; E-mail: khenning@health.nyc.gov.
Abstract Innovative electronic surveillance systems are being developed to improve early detection of outbreaks attributable to biologic terrorism or other causes.
A review of the rationale, goals, definitions, and realistic expectations for these surveillance systems is a crucial first step toward establishing a framework for further research and development in this area.
This commentary provides such a review for current syndromic surveillance systems.
Syndromic surveillance has been used for early detection of outbreaks, to follow the size, spread, and tempo of outbreaks, to monitor disease trends, and to provide reassurance that an outbreak has not occurred.
Syndromic surveillance systems seek to use existing health data in real time to provide immediate analysis and feedback to those charged with investigation and follow-up of potential outbreaks.
Optimal syndrome definitions for continuous monitoring and specific data sources best suited to outbreak surveillance for specific diseases have not been determined.
Broadly applicable signal-detection methodologies and response protocols that would maximize detection while preserving scant resources are being sought.
Stakeholders need to understand the advantages and limitations of syndromic surveillance systems.
Syndromic surveillance systems might enhance collaboration among public health agencies, health-care providers, information-system professionals, academic investigators, and industry.
However, syndromic surveillance does not replace traditional public health surveillance, nor does it substitute for direct physician reporting of unusual or suspect cases of public health importance.
Introduction The desire to expand and improve upon traditional methods of public health surveillance is not new.
Even before the 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States and the subsequent anthrax outbreak, public health officials had begun to enhance detection of emerging infections and illnesses caused by biologic agents.
A primary objective of a 1998 CDC plan was to develop programs for early detection and investigation of outbreaks (1).
CDC's 2000 strategic plan for biologic and chemical preparedness called for early detection by integrating terrorism preparedness into existing systems and developing "new mechanisms for detecting, evaluating, and reporting suspicious events" (2).
Although the need for innovative surveillance techniques had already been identified, the anthrax outbreak after Bacillus anthracis spores were released through the mail in 2001 (3) accelerated the implementation of syndromic surveillance systems across the United States.
An overview of the location and scope of the earliest systems implemented before and after fall 2001 has been published (4).
Goals and Rationale Although syndromic surveillance was developed for early detection of a large-scale release of a biologic agent, current surveillance goals reach beyond terrorism preparedness.
Medical-provider reporting remains critical for identifying unusual disease clusters or sentinel cases.
Nevertheless, syndromic surveillance might help determine the size, spread, and tempo of an outbreak after it is detected (5), or provide reassurance that a large-scale outbreak is not occurring, particularly in times of enhanced surveillance (e.g., during a high-profile event).
Finally, syndromic surveillance is beginning to be used to monitor disease trends, which is increasingly possible as longitudinal data are obtained and syndrome definitions refined.
The fundamental objective of syndromic surveillance is to identify illness clusters early, before diagnoses are confirmed and reported to public health agencies, and to mobilize a rapid response, thereby reducing morbidity and mortality.
Epidemic curves for persons with earliest symptom onset and those with severe illness can be depicted graphically (Figure).
The time between symptom onset for an increasing number of cases caused by deliberate release of a biologic agent and subsequent patient visits to a health-care facility resulting in a definitive diagnosis is represented by t.
Syndromic surveillance aims to identify a threshold number of early symptomatic cases, allowing detection of an outbreak t days earlier than would conventional reporting of confirmed cases.
The ability of syndromic surveillance to detect outbreaks earlier than conventional surveillance methods depends on such factors as the size of the outbreak, the population dispersion of those affected, the data sources and syndrome definitions used, the criteria for investigating threshold alerts, and the health-care provider's ability to detect and report unusual cases (6).
CDC's framework for evaluating public health surveillance systems for early detection of outbreaks should be useful for comparing syndromic surveillance across jurisdictions and for evaluating system performance (7).
Specific definitions for syndromic surveillance are lacking, and the name itself is imprecise.
Certain programs monitor surrogate data sources (e.g., over-the-counter prescription sales or school absenteeism), not specific disease syndromes.
Meanwhile, certain well-defined disease or clinical syndromes (e.g., hemolytic uremic syndrome or Kawasaki's syndrome) are not included in syndrome definitions, often leading to confusion about what "syndromic" surveillance actually monitors.
Diverse names used to describe public health surveillance systems for early outbreak detection include early warning systems (8,9); prodrome surveillance (10); outbreak detection systems (11); information system-based sentinel surveillance (12); biosurveillance systems (13--15); health indicator surveillance (16); and symptom-based surveillance (17).
However, syndromic surveillance is the term that has persisted.
In defining syndromic surveillance, certain authors have emphasized the importance of monitoring the frequency of illnesses with a specific set of clinical features (18), a definition that does not account for nonclinical data sources.
Others have emphasized the importance of prediagnostic data to estimate a community's health status, particularly by relying on outpatient visits (19).
Inherent in the use of existing electronic data to describe prediagnostic health indicators is the central role of timeliness in the analysis, detection, and investigation of alerts.
Perhaps the most comprehensive definition to date, and likely the one to be broadly adopted, is provided by CDC's evaluation framework, which describes syndromic surveillance as "an investigational approach where health department staff, assisted by automated data acquisition and generation of statistical alerts, monitor disease indicators in real-time or near real-time to detect outbreaks of disease earlier than would otherwise be possible with traditional public health methods" (7).
Syndromic surveillance systems vary by their planned duration and their manner of acquiring data (Table).
Short-duration, event-based systems are usually used to provide enhanced surveillance around a discrete event (e.g., the Olympic Games or a national political convention) (20,23).
Historically, these short-term syndromic surveillance projects, sometimes termed drop-in surveillance, have required medical providers or others to collect nonroutine information (20).
More recent event-based surveillance systems have relied on rapid implementation of electronically transferred data (23).
Manual data entry, which occurred after September 11, 2001, in 15 New York City emergency departments (EDs), is difficult to sustain (21).
Using pre-existing health data for syndromic surveillance offers immediate accessibility and poses limited burden to providers and health-care institutions.
Categorizing symptoms and diagnoses into syndromes is a fundamental component of syndromic surveillance systems that use clinical data sets.
Although the majority of investigators have devised broad categories aimed at early detection of biologic terrorism, validation of syndrome definitions is only beginning.
Respiratory, gastrointestinal, rash, neurologic and sepsis syndromes have been monitored consistently (19,22).
Because numerous ED and outpatient settings have International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) data available electronically, ICD-9-CM codes have been used to categorize syndromes.
To facilitate comparability between surveillance systems, a CDC working group published lists of candidate syndrome groups based on ICD-9-CM codes (27).
The usefulness of ICD-9-CM codes compared with other data streams, particularly with regard to the data's timeliness, requires evaluation by each surveillance program.
Syndromic surveillance focuses on the early symptom (prodrome) period before clinical or laboratory confirmation of a particular disease and uses both clinical and alternative data sources (Box).
Strictly defined, syndromic surveillance gathers information about patients' symptoms (e.g., cough, fever, or shortness of breath) during the early phases of illness.
However, in practice, certain syndromic surveillance systems collect surrogate data indicating early illness (e.g., school or work absenteeism data or veterinary data such as unexpected avian deaths or other potential precursors of human illness).
Alternative data sources have potential problems, including a presumed low specificity for syndromes of interest, high probability of influence by factors unrelated to personal health (e.g., weather or holidays), and difficulty in retracing data aberrations to individual patients.
Despite these qualifiers, the optimal system might be one that integrates data from multiple sources, potentially increasing investigators' confidence in the relevance of an alert from any single data source.
Analytic Methods for Signal Detection The analytic challenge in using syndromic surveillance for outbreak detection is to identify a signal corresponding to an outbreak or cluster amid substantial "background noise" in the data.
Syndromic surveillance systems use an array of aberration-detection methods to identify increases in syndromes above predetermined thresholds.
However, signal-detection methods have not yet been standardized.
Temporal and spatio-temporal methods have been used to assess day-to-day and day and place variability of data from an expected baseline (27,28).
Response Protocols Response protocols for investigating syndromic surveillance alerts are under development by multiple programs.
Obstacles to effective, efficient follow-up include the difficulty of predicting how well the syndromes themselves correlate with target diseases under surveillance; the extremely low positive predictive value of any given signal based on the high level of system sensitivity; and investigators' relative lack of experience with syndromic surveillance under real-world conditions (30).
Programmatic requirements for effective signal response (e.g., documented procedures; staff with appropriate expertise; 24-hour/day, 7-day/week analysis and response; and plans for information dissemination) are complex.
Certain circumstances surrounding an alert might prompt rapider investigation, including clustering of cases by location; severe symptoms; unexplained deaths; sudden, substantial case numbers; simultaneous alerts from multiple data sources; or restriction of an alert to a particular population (e.g., age group or sex) (31).
Diagnostic confirmation is a paramount step in investigating alerts, particularly given the nonspecific nature of certain syndrome categories.
Developing protocols to address alerts from data sources in which individual cases are unidentifiable (e.g., over-the-counter medication sales) is particularly challenging.
Perspectives and Challenges Distinguishing those points on which multiple investigators agree from those that are less well-delineated might be helpful in defining realistic expectations for syndromic surveillance.
Investigators usually agree on the following: Syndromic surveillance is being used in numerous states and localities to detect a potential large-scale biologic attack.
Pre-existing electronic health data will likely become increasingly available, thereby enhancing system development.
Syndromic surveillance does not replace traditional public health surveillance.
Syndromic surveillance is unlikely to detect an individual case of a particular illness.
Syndromic surveillance cannot replace the critical contribution of physicians in early detection and reporting of unusual diseases and events.
Although syndromic surveillance's ability to detect a terrorism-related outbreak earlier than traditional surveillance remains unknown, it will likely be useful for defining the scope of an outbreak, providing reassurance that a large-scale outbreak has not occurred, and conducting surveillance of noninfectious health problems (e.g., monitoring nicotine replacement therapy sales following tobacco-tax increases).
However, integral components of syndromic surveillance require additional research and evaluation, including the following: defining optimal data sources; evaluating appropriate syndromic definitions; standardizing signal-detection methods; developing minimally acceptable response protocols; clarifying the use of simulation data sets to test systems; and advancing the debate regarding resource commitment for syndromic versus traditional surveillance.
On a broader policy level, defining the role of academic partners in bridging any potential analytic gaps, defining the role and scope of a national syndromic data repository, and developing policy for integrating laboratory testing and laboratory information systems with syndromic surveillance are on the horizon.
Acknowledgments Farzad Mostashari, Don Weiss, Rick Heffernan, and other members of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene syndromic surveillance team provided data and program information.
References CDC.
Preventing emerging infectious diseases: a strategy for the 21st century.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, 1998.
Available at 
Biological and chemical terrorism: strategic plan for preparedness and response: recommendations of the CDC strategic planning workgroup.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
RR-4):1--14.
Update: investigation of anthrax associated with intentional exposure and interim public health guidelines, October 2001.
MMWR 2001;50:889--93.
Henning KJ.
Syndromic surveillance.
In: Smolinski MS, Hamburg MA, Lederberg J (eds.).
Microbial threats to health: emergence, detection, and response.
Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2003;309--50.
Mostashari F, Hartman J.
Syndromic surveillance: a local perspective.
J Urban Health 2003;80(2 Suppl 1):i1--7.
Buehler JW, Berkelman RL, Hartley DM, Peters CJ.
Syndromic surveillance and bioterrorism-related epidemics.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;9:1197--1204.
Framework for evaluating public health surveillance systems for early detection of outbreaks: recommendations from the CDC working group.
MMWR 2004;53(No.RR-5).
Wagner MM, Tsui F-C, Espino JU, et al.
The emerging science of very early detection of disease outbreaks.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2001;7:50--8.
Brinsfield KH, Gunn JE, Barry MA, McKenna V, Syer KS, Sulis C.
Acad Emerg Med 2001;8:492.
Mostashari F, Karpati A.
International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases, Atlanta, GA, March 24--27, 2002.
Stern L, Lightfoot D.
Automated outbreak detection: a quantitative retrospective analysis.
Epidemiol Infect 1999;122:103--10.
Lober WB, Karras BT, Wagner MM, et al.
Roundtable on bioterrorism detection: information systems-based surveillance.
J Am Med Inform Assoc 2002;9:105--15.
Cochrane DH, Allegra JR, Rothman J.
Acad Emerg Med 2003;10:525.
Olson KL, Mandl K.
Proc AMIA Symp 2002;1119.
Mocny M, Cochrane DG, Allegra JR, et al.
A comparison of two methods of biosurveillance of respiratory disease in the emergency department: chief complaint vs.
Acad Emerg Med 2003;10:513.
Pavlin JA, Mostashari F, Kortepter MG, et al.
Innovative surveillance methods for rapid detection of disease outbreaks and bioterrorism: results of an interagency workshop on health indicator surveillance.
Am J Public Health 2003;93:1230--5.
Osaka K, Takahashi H, Ohyama T.
Testing a symptom-based surveillance system at high-profile gatherings as a preparatory measure of bioterrorism.
Epidemiol Infect 2002;129:429--34.
Reingold A.
If syndromic surveillance is the answer, what is the question?
Biosecur Bioterror 2003;1:1--5.
US Department of Defense.
Electronic Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community-Based Epidemics (ESSENCE).
Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Defense, Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response System.
Available at 
County of Los Angeles, Department of Health Services, Acute Communicable Disease Control.
Special studies report 2000: Democratic National Convention---bioterrorism syndromic surveillance.
Los Angeles: County of Los Angeles Department of Health Services, 2000.
Available at 
Syndromic surveillance for bioterrorism following the attacks on the World Trade Center---New York City, 2001.
MMWR 2002; 51(Special Issue):13--15.
Begier EM, Sockwell D, Branch LM, et al.
The National Capitol Region's emergency department syndromic surveillance system: do chief complaint and discharge diagnosis yield different results?
Emerg Infect Dis 2003;9:393--6.
Gesteland PH, Wagner MM, Chapman WW, et al.
Rapid deployment of an electronic disease surveillance system in the state of Utah for the 2002 Olympic Winter Games.
Proc AMIA Symp 2002;285--289.
Lazarus R, Kleinman K, Sashevesky I, et al.
Use of automated ambulatory-care encounter records for detection of acute illness clusters, including potential bioterrorism events.
Emerg Infect Dis 2002;8:753--60.
Zelicoff A, Brillman J, Forslund DW, et al.
The rapid syndrome validation project.
Proc AMIA Symp 2001;771--5.
Kluger MD, Sofair AN, Heye CJ, Meek JI, Sodhi RK, Hadler JL.
Retrospective validation of a surveillance system from unexplained illness and death: New Haven County, Connecticut.
Am J Public Health 2001; 91:1214--9.
Syndrome definitions for diseases associated with critical bioterrorism-associated agents.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC.
Available at 
Hutwagner L, Thompson W, Seeman GM, Treadwell T.
The bioterrorism preparedness and response early aberration reporting system (EARS).
J Urban Health 2003;80(2 Suppl 1):i89--96.
Das D, Weiss D, Mostashari F, et al.
Enhanced drop-in syndromic surveillance in New York City following September 11, 2001.
J Urban Health 2003;80(2 Suppl 1):i76--88.
Epidemiological response to syndromic surveillance signals.
J Urban Health 2003;80(2 Suppl 1):i115--6.
Investigation of disease outbreaks detected by syndromic surveillance systems.
J Urban Health 2003;80(2 Suppl 1):i107--4.
Table Return to top.
Figure Return to top.
Box Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 19, 2024 Posit Workbench and SAS Studio WHAT TO KNOW Posit Workbench lets users access and analyze SQL data stored on the BioSense Platform.
Posit is the tool formerly known as RStudio.
Activities include validating data within the archive (raw, processed, and exceptions tables), confirming information in the Master Facility Table, and extracting data directly from ESSENCE using an application programming interface.
SAS Studio is a customizable, web browser-based interface for advanced analytics and visualization of complex data.
Guides and manuals Posit Workbench/RStudio User Manual SAS Studio User Manual Training Expand All Rnssp R FAQs Expand All How do I get access to Posit Workbench (RStudio)?
How much drive space do I have?
What if I need more drive space temporarily?
Why do my SAS files show up in my Posit Workbench Home Folder?
What if our team is working on a large shared project and we need more than 500 gigabytes?
What can I do if I’m assigned a project requiring more than 500 gigabytes on a continuing basis?
Articles How to Do Queries in Posit Workbench This step-by-step guide walks public health professionals through the process for SQL queries on the...
11, 2024 How to Do SQL Queries in SAS Studio This step-by-step guide offers instructions and code examples for querying data on the BioSense Plat...
19, 2024 Resources How to Use RStudio with NSSP-ESSENCE APIs RELATED PAGES Onboarding Resources Associated Facilities Designations Onboarding Outreach: Production Exceptions Mortality Data Laboratory Data VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Mortality Data SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 21, 2024 ESSENCE WHAT TO KNOW ESSENCE is the key tool that allows public health professionals to access and interpret the data that flow into the BioSense Platform.
This supports collaboration and investigation.
It also allows users to analyze, visualize, and share data.
ESSENCE is also known as the Electronic Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community-based Epidemics.
Guides and manuals ESSENCE Quick Start Guide Training Expand All Query development Knowledge Repository ESSENCE courses ESSENCE video training Rnssp R training FAQs Expand All What does ESSENCE do with an invalid patient ZIP code?
Why would I want to use the ESSENCE API?
What does an API response look like in ESSENCE?
Articles Advantages of Designating Associated Facilities The associated facilities designation can streamline data monitoring and alerts for site admins.
18, 2024 Replication and the DataMart A replication process ensures that analytics and validation activities do not impact data flow.
19, 2024 Using ESSENCE to Monitor Changes in Data Quality ESSENCE and the Data Quality Dashboard help public health professionals monitor data quality.
10, 2024 The Case of the Disappearing Diagnosis The number of visits in ESSENCE query results can change over time.
Learn more about the variances.
22, 2024 BioSense Platform Creates an Identifier Unique to Each Visit BioSense Platform collapses patient visit data into a single record by creating a unique identifier.
2, 2024 Keeping Records out of the Filtered Zone in BioSense Platform A baseball analogy explains how core data elements are checked before being passed to the next base.
21, 2024 Oh My ...You Haven't Aged a Bit!
Learn about how age values are calculated in ESSENCE to avoid negative values or very old ages.
22, 2024 Find more ESSENCE guidance in our library of Helpful Articles.
Resources R for Data Science R Markdown: The Definitive Guide Text Mining with R RELATED PAGES Onboarding Resources Six Reasons to Onboard New Facilities Master Facility Table Understanding Facility Status Changes Identifying Duplicate Messages VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Understanding Facility Status Changes SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC Expands Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers and Livestock Owners to Lower the Risk of Becoming infected with Bird Flu For Everyone NOV.
8, 2024 AT A GLANCE A new report included this week in CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) focused on a study that assessed levels of antibodies against H5N1 virus in blood samples of dairy farm workers (i.e.
a serologic study) and provides updated insights into the degree to which they have been exposed to H5N1 bird flu during this year's outbreak.
What to Know From This Report In this week's Spotlight, we include the key findings from a recent study coordinated with state health departments in Michigan and Colorado, published in this week's MMWR.
This study, also called a serosurvey, tests blood from people with exposure to dairy cows with H5N1 infection in order to determine if the workers had developed antibodies against the virus.
This can help us better understand how frequently farm workers who are exposed to infected dairy cows may become infected with H5N1.
One hundred and fifteen people who worked on farms with cows infected with H5N1 participated in this study.
Eight of these 115 people (7% of participants) showed evidence of recent H5N1 virus infection, and four of the eight with evidence of infection did not remember feeling sick or showing symptoms.
This study adds to the data CDC reported in July, which describe early results of the first phase of the study among 35 workers in Michigan.
In that group of workers, none showed evidence of prior H5N1 virus infection.
Eighty more workers were included in the second phase of this study in both Michigan and Colorado.
Identifying some workers who did not recall feeling sick, but who had evidence of recent H5N1 virus infection, is important new data that informs new guidance to protect workers.
What CDC is Doing With These Findings The risk of infection with H5N1 virus among the general public remains low.
However, these new findings highlight the need for employers and public health to strengthen prevention activities to better protect farm workers from this infection.
Doing so is important to reduce the risk of H5N1 virus spread to exposed workers from sick animals.
Data generated by CDC, state and local public health, and animal health partners during this animal outbreak have shown that there are two primary ways that workers in the United States have been infected with H5N1 virus: via exposure to infected poultry during culling activities, and through exposure to infected dairy cows, including while caring for sick cows, or when working in a milking parlor, the area on the farm where cows are milked.
Based on these data, CDC is updating its existing recommendations on actions to prevent exposures to H5N1 infected animals.
These enhanced actions include: Decreasing human exposure through One Health control strategies and biosecurity to limit H5N1 virus infections in animals.
Enhancing personal protective equipment (PPE) guidance to more clearly detail what PPE is appropriate for exposure risk levels (high, medium, and low) in farming and poultry culling operations, alongside more robust worker training on proper use of PPE.
Identifying exposed workers and providing appropriate testing as well as post-exposure prophylaxis (i.e., efforts to limit spread of disease), and treatment (e.g., antivirals).
Offering testing to asymptomatic workers with a high-risk exposure who reported not wearing relevant PPE or who experienced a PPE breach or failure.
Increasing outreach and education with farm workers, employers, and advocacy groups to stress and ensure understanding of these messages and strategies.
Working with its partners, CDC has updated its existing H5N1 guidance to employers and workers to provide recommendations for measures that can be taken to prevent animal-to-human transmission of H5N1.
Data from the serosurvey and case investigations have identified settings and activities that are higher risk for transmission of H5N1, allowing CDC to better prioritize its PPE recommendations.
In this update, CDC has tailored its PPE recommendations to match the risk of H5N1 exposure during different work tasks and in different settings to better protect workers againstH5N1 infection from sick animals.
The updated PPE guidance helps employers and workers prioritize what PPE is used in settings associated with high and moderate-risk exposures and also defines situations where higher levels of PPE may not be needed.
CDC has also updated its recommendations for testing and for offering oral antiviral medications such as post-exposure prophylaxis for asymptomatic workers who report a high-risk exposure to animals with H5N1.
These updates recommend that asymptomatic workers with a PPE-unprotected, high-risk exposure to sick animals be offered oseltamivir, an FDA approved oral influenza antiviral, for post-exposure prophylaxis of H5N1.
As a reminder, oseltamivir may be used to treat people with an H5N1 infection, and be given after an exposure to influenza to prevent infection, also called post-exposure prophylaxis or PEP.
A high-risk exposure could include an unprotected splash in the face with raw cow milk from an infected or potentially infected cow, or not using recommended PPE during activities to depopulate poultry at a poultry farm with known H5N1.
Also, the recommendations include offering influenza A(H5) testing to asymptomatic workers who had a high-risk exposure to animals with H5N1 whether the worker decides to begin PEP or not.
CDC continues to recommend that people who have been exposed to animals infected or potentially infected with avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses should watch for symptoms, even very mild symptoms, such as eye irritation, and seek testing and care as soon as possible if symptoms develop.
CDC will continue to work with local, state and Federal partners, the National Center for Farmworker Health , as well as foundations and associations who support local agricultural extensions, to help these organizations inform farm workers about H5N1 and how to protect themselves from this infection.
Additional outreach will focus on key worker and employer groups as well as advocacy groups for Latino populations, such as the National Alliance for Hispanic Health , the National Hispanic Medical Association , and UNIDOS , to alert these organizations to these updated strategies to support farm worker health.
A Note About the Importance of Seasonal Flu Vaccination and the H5N1 Outbreak As we enter our annual flu season, CDC is working closely with partners to ensure farm workers have access to seasonal flu vaccine.
While the seasonal flu vaccine does not protect against infection with H5N1, expanding access to seasonal flu vaccines among farm workers can lower their risk of developing severe illness related to seasonal flu and limit the spread of seasonal flu among this group.
CDC currently recommends that all people 6 months and older get their flu shot to help prevent flu and its complications.
CDC Avian (Bird Flu) Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) Resources (including Spanish) For Employer Guidance Testing and PEP guidance ON THIS PAGE What to Know From This Report What CDC is Doing With These Findings A Note About the Importance of Seasonal Flu Vaccination and the H5N1 Outbreak RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 1, 2024 CDC Reports Additional Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Ferret Study Results VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 1, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 For Everyone NOV.
18, 2024 AT A GLANCE CDC provides an update on its response activities related to the multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
What to Know In this week's spotlight, CDC highlights new resources for employers of farm workers, the results of a radio media tour for journalists reporting on flu, and findings from genetic sequencing of some of the avian influenza A(H5) viruses from recent cases among people with exposures to infected animals in Washington and California.
Situation Update November 18, 2024 – CDC continues to respond to the public health challenge posed by a multistate outbreak of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, or "H5N1 bird flu," in dairy cows, poultry and other animals in the United States.
CDC is working in collaboration with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR), state public health and animal health officials, and other partners using a One Health approach.
Since April 2024, CDC, working with state public health departments, has confirmed avian influenza A(H5) virus infections in 52 people in the United States.
The source of the exposure in one case, which was reported by Missouri on September 6, could not be determined.
The 52 cases include 26 cases among dairy farm workers in California, five of which were confirmed by CDC on November 13 and 14, and one additional case in a poultry farm worker in Oregon.
This is the first human case of H5N1 bird flu reported in Oregon.
All recent cases have occurred in workers on affected farms.
All available data so far suggest sporadic instances of animal-to-human spread.
These farm workers all described mild symptoms, many with eye redness or discharge (conjunctivitis).
Some workers who tested positive in Washington reported some mild upper respiratory symptoms.
None of the workers were hospitalized.
CDC is aware of the human case of H5N1 bird flu reported in Canada and is in communication with the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC), which has confirmed that the case was caused by an H5N1 virus that is different than those causing outbreaks in dairy cows and other animals in the United States.
More information about the case in Canada and ongoing epidemiological investigation is available in a statement from PHAC.
Updated case counts for the United States, including by state and source of exposure, are recorded in a table on CDC's website.
To date, person-to-person spread of H5 bird flu has not been identified in the United States.
CDC believes the immediate risk to the general public from H5 bird flu remains low, but people with exposure to infected animals are at higher risk of infection.
On the animal health side, since March 2024, USDA has confirmed infected cattle in 505 dairy herds in 15 U.S.
The number of affected herds continues to grow nationally, with almost all new infections identified in herds in California.
USDA reports that, since April 2024, there have been H5 detections in 50 commercial poultry flocks and 38 backyard flocks, for a total of 25.61 million birds affected.
Among other activities reported in previous spotlights and ongoing, recent highlights of CDC's response to this include: Laboratory Update To date, CDC has confirmed 11 human cases of H5 bird flu in poultry farm workers in Washington.
Genetic sequencing of influenza virus from clinical specimens from these cases showed no changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) associated with increased infectivity or transmissibility among people.
However, in influenza specimens from three of these H5 cases, CDC identified a change, NA-S247N, that may slightly reduce susceptibility to the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir in laboratory tests.
NA-S247N has been detected sporadically in seasonal influenza viruses and has rarely been found in A(H5N1) viruses.
Historically, two H5N1 viruses with the NA-S247N change have been tested for susceptibility to oseltamivir: an A(H5N1) virus collected from a chicken in Laos in 2008 (A/chicken/Laos/13/2008; PMID: 20016036) and a clade 2.3.4.4b H5N1 virus collected from a dolphin in Florida in 2022 (A/dolphin/Florida/2022; PMID: 37494978 and PMID: 38637646).
These laboratory studies found either mildly reduced or reduced inhibition by oseltamivir, with results well below what has been reported for oseltamivir resistance of other influenza viruses.
It is important to note that this change is not spreading in H5 viruses.
Additionally, this change is not expected to have an impact on the ability of influenza viruses to replicate or spread more easily.
While NA-S247N may slightly reduce antiviral susceptibility in laboratory testing, that is NOT the same as resistance.
Results of laboratory studies demonstrating mildly reduced or reduced inhibition by oseltamivir may not indicate reduced effectiveness of antiviral treatment of a patient with H5N1 virus infection.
NA-S247N is unlikely to have a meaningful impact on the clinical benefit of oseltamivir, which is the currently recommended antiviral for treatment for H5 bird flu.
CDC continues to recommend oseltamivir for treatment of patients with H5N1 and for post-exposure prophylaxis of close contacts of confirmed H5N1 patients and those with higher risk exposures to animals infected with H5N1 viruses.
Due to low viral RNA concentrations in clinical specimens from these three cases and unsuccessful attempts to isolate virus in culture, multiple sequencing attempts were required to generate data sufficient to meet CDC quality thresholds for posting of partial NA sequences.
CDC also identified a different change in the polymerase acidic (PA) protein of a virus collected from a recently confirmed human case of H5N1 bird flu in California (A/California/150/2024).
This change, PA-I38M, is associated with decreased susceptibility to the influenza antiviral medication baloxavir marboxil and has been sporadically detected in a small number of avian influenza viruses.
Baloxavir is not currently recommended for treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis of H5N1 virus infection.
As indicated above, oseltamivir is the recommended antiviral treatment for H5N1 bird flu.
No H5N1 patients in the U.S.
have received baloxavir treatment for H5N1.
There are no available data on baloxavir treatment of H5N1 patients worldwide.
And the optimal dosing and duration of baloxavir for treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis of H5N1 virus infection in humans are unknown.
Influenza genetic sequence data from these and other recently confirmed cases of H5 bird flu in humans have been posted in GISAID and GenBank .
Additional laboratory investigations are ongoing and planned at CDC to better understand the implications of these changes in the context of the currently spreading H5 viruses.
In summary, although these particular changes have not been detected widely and are not spreading among dairy cattle or birds, these findings underscore the importance of ongoing surveillance and testing to analyze H5 viruses for any changes that could potentially impact their susceptibility to flu antiviral medications.
Surveillance Update As noted above, CDC has so far confirmed 11 cases in Washington state and 26 cases in California.
CDC continues to support states that are monitoring people with exposure to cows, birds, or other domestic or wild animals infected, or potentially infected, with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus.
To date, more than 7,300 people have been monitored as a result of their exposure to infected or potentially infected animals, and at least 380 people who have developed flu-like symptoms, including conjunctivitis, have been tested as part of this targeted, situation-specific testing.
More information on monitoring can be found at Symptom Monitoring Among Persons Exposed to HPAI.
In addition, since February 25, 2024, more than 60,000 specimens have been tested for avian influenza A(H5) virus or other novel influenza viruses at public health labs.
One of the specimens, collected as a part of routine surveillance, was identified as presumptive positive for avian influenza A(H5) virus and was confirmed as H5N1 bird flu positive by CDC.
CDC also continues to monitor flu surveillance data using CDC's 2024-2025 influenza surveillance strategy, especially in areas where avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses have been detected in dairy cows or other animals, for any unusual trends, including in flu-like illness, conjunctivitis, or influenza virus activity.
Overall, for the most recent week of data, CDC flu surveillance systems show no indicators of unusual flu activity in people.
Outreach Update On Tuesday, November 12, and Wednesday, November 13, CDC hosted a radio media tour in English and Spanish for journalists reporting on flu.
The aim of these interviews was to underscore the importance of seasonal flu vaccination to reduce the risk from seasonal flu.
CDC has made available on its website a new "Toolbox Talk" on personal protective equipment for H5 bird flu.
Toolbox Talks serve as a guide for leading focused discussions with workers about hazards they may face on the job.
This guide is designed to help employers talk to workers about using PPE to prevent exposures to H5N1 bird flu, with brief presentations on how PPE works, how to safely put on and remove PPE, and what to do while wearing PPE.
CDC continues to support outreach to farm workers around the topic of H5N1 bird flu.
This includes targeted outreach to farm workers in affected counties through Meta (Facebook and Instagram) and digital display and audio (Pandora).
CDC also is running advertisements on local radio stations about 30 times each week to reach people who may not be on social media platforms.
These resources provide information in English and Spanish about potential risks of H5N1 bird flu infection, recommended preventive actions, symptoms to be on the lookout for, and what to do if people develop symptoms.
Outreach metrics are summarized in Table 1 (below).
CDC also is developing an outreach strategy to raise awareness about the free seasonal flu vaccinations being offered to farm workers in affected states this season.
CDC Recommendations As a reminder, CDC recommends that: People should avoid exposures to sick or dead animals, including wild birds, poultry, other domesticated birds, and other wild or domesticated animals (including cows), if possible.
People should also avoid exposures to animal poop, bedding (litter), unpasteurized ("raw") milk, or materials that have been touched by, or close to, birds or other animals with suspected or confirmed avian influenza A(H5N1) virus, if possible.
People should not drink raw milk.
Pasteurization kills avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, and pasteurized milk is safe to drink.
People who have job-related contact with infected or potentially infected birds or other animals should be aware of the risk of exposure to avian influenza viruses and should take proper precautions.
People should wear appropriate and recommended personal protective equipment when exposed to an infected or potentially infected animal(s).
CDC has recommendations for worker protection and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
CDC has interim recommendations for prevention, monitoring, and public health investigations of avian influenza A(H5N1) virus infections in people.
Following these recommendations is central to reducing a person's risk and containing the overall public health risk.
In addition to limiting interactions between infected animals and people, containing the outbreak among animals also is important, which underscores the urgency of the work being done by USDA and animal health and industry partners.
This is an evolving situation and CDC is committed to providing frequent and timely updates.
Total Number of Impressions for Targeted Outreach to Farm Workers Channel Partner Placement Impressions Social Facebook English In-Feed 29,796,424 Spanish In-Feed 6,422,580 Instagram English In-Feed 8,679,566 Spanish In-Feed 784,838 Social Totals 45,683,408 Display Fusable English Display 10,724,579 Spanish Display 1,762,177 Display Totals 12,486,756 Audio Pandora English Audio + Display 7,643,662 Spanish Audio + Display 3,074,571 Audio Totals 10,718,233 Language Totals English Language 56,844,231 Spanish Language 12,044,166 Social/Digital Media Campaign Totals 68,883,397 ON THIS PAGE What to Know Situation Update CDC Recommendations RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Identified in a Person in Louisiana Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California CDC Expands H5N1 Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers from Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 1, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC Expands H5N1 Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers from Bird Flu SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 22, 2024 Electronic Laboratory Data WHAT TO KNOW NSSP receives electronic laboratory testing orders and results for select health conditions from a large national commercial laboratory identified as Lab A.
These data support public health professionals in detecting, monitoring, and responding to health threats.
Data dictionaries Laboratory Lookup Tables Download Access ESSENCE users can be granted access to Lab A data by their site administrator.
All access to Lab A data requires active, documented collaboration with an ESSENCE or CDC user.
Please reach out with questions by emailing nssp@cdc.gov.
You can also request approval guidelines.
FAQs Are patient identifiers part of Lab A data?
No, patient identifiers are not included in the Lab A data transmitted to NSSP, nor are there currently plans to create or gain patient identifiers.
Patient identifying information like names and addresses are also not included in these data.
Do Lab A data include specimen identifiers?
Yes, Lab A provides specimen (accession) identifiers to NSSP for the agreed-upon list of health conditions.
If a patient received testing for multiple health conditions at the same time, such as influenza and COVID-19, those results will be linked.
However, if a patient received additional testing not included in the health conditions list, such as a CBC panel or cholesterol screening, Lab A would not send the results of that additional testing to NSSP.
How can CDC partners (researchers, academics, and other federal agency staff) gain access to Lab A data?
All access to Lab A data requires active, documented collaboration with an ESSENCE or CDC user.
For approval guidelines, please email nssp@cdc.gov.
How does a CDC user gain access to Lab A data?
To request Lab A access, contact nssp@cdc.gov.
CDC staff need supervisor approval and must submit an official data access request.
Each CDC user will need to submit an individual data access request.
It’s always a good idea to discuss new projects with NSSP staff before submitting the request.
How does an ESSENCE user in a state, tribal, local, or territorial public health department gain access to Lab A data?
ESSENCE users can be granted access to the Laboratory A data by their site administrator.
Site administrators can update rules for laboratory data access inside of the Access & Management Center (AMC) in the same way access rules are created for emergency department data.
Please contact nssp@cdc.gov with questions.
How often does Lab A send data to NSSP?
Is there a lag?
Twice daily, except on Sundays, data are updated and sent electronically via HL7® messaging.
Sunday data are backfilled with the first Monday update.
Tests are included in the file at the time Lab A receives a specimen.
As a result, NSSP sometimes receives initial data about a test before the result is ready.
When the result is ready, it is included in the next data transmission as an update.
The lag between the initial data and obtaining the result depends on the condition.
Some tests take longer than others to finish.
View Larger The lab data flow process.
These identifiers are confusing.
Can you give me an example?
If a patient sees a medical provider and gets tested for both influenza and COVID-19 at the same visit, those results will be linked via the specimen identifier.
However, if that patient returns for additional testing, say to see if the infection has cleared, those results will not be linked to previous results.
What are Lab A data?
Since early 2019, NSSP has had an agreement with Lab A to receive electronic laboratory testing orders and results for select health conditions.
What health conditions does Lab A data cover?
Health conditions sent by Lab A are listed in the Laboratory User Tables.
What other demographic information are available in the Lab A data?
NSSP receives basic information on: Patient demographics (sex, state, age in years, race, ethnicity) The provider (state and specialty, including primary care, OB-GYN, hospital, etc.) Laboratory facility (state) Information about the commonly used fields in the NSSP data are described in the Laboratory User Tables.
What results (negative, positive, detected, etc.) does NSSP receive from Lab A?
NSSP receives all possible laboratory results.
This includes negative, positive, detected, not detected, flora growth, and quantitative results.
For ease of querying, NSSP created categories for each of these results.
To learn more about result categories, see the Laboratory User Tables.
ON THIS PAGE Data dictionaries Access FAQs Technical Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 7, 2024 Identifying Duplicate Messages in BioSense Platform PURPOSE BioSense Platform users need to know what to do if they suspect duplicate messages.
This technical guidance identifies common triggers and outlines a solution for resolving these issues.
High collapse rates point to duplicate messages When facilities are brought onboard the BioSense Platform, the NSSP team checks incoming data for standard completeness and validity.
They also calculate collapse rate, which is the average message count per visit.
The team looks for a collapse rate of fewer than 35 messages per visit—although fewer than 10 messages per visit is preferred.
When high collapse rates are found, the cause is typically duplicate messages.
Duplicate messages occur when the BioSense Platform receives the same exact message more than once.
Sometimes the entire message—including Message_Control_ID—is received multiple times, indicating that the message has been sent more than once.
Other times, the Message_Control_ID can change when the rest of the message is the same as a previous message.
When this occurs, the cause is often related to message triggers at the data source.
Message duplication vs.
duplicate visits‎‎ Do not confuse "message duplication" with "duplicate visits." Message duplication—when the BioSense Platform receives the exact same message more than once—is distinct and should be monitored and resolved using different methods.
Solving the problem To identify duplicate messages, you will need to run SQL code to de-duplicate all messages associated with a visit (or range of visits) by all fields received from the facility and contained in the XX_ST_Processed or XX_PR_Processed table.
Exclude fields created by NSSP processing.
Then run an additional check while excluding the Message_Control_ID.
Although some duplicate messages are almost always identified, the occurrence is usually low.
If you are concerned about message duplication for your site, please contact the onboarding team by submitting a Service Desk ticket.
A team member will respond by explaining the process, answering your questions, and providing the SQL code needed to identify duplication.
ON THIS PAGE High collapse rates point to duplicate messages Solving the problem RELATED PAGES Onboarding Resources ESSENCE Understanding Facility Status Changes Moving Data Into Production Facility Deactivation Alert Response VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Moving Data Into Production SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All For Everyone DECEMBER 10, 2024 ESPAÑOL Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California AT A GLANCE Although the genetic data generated were insufficient to classify the virus as a specific genotype, the virus gene segments sequenced most closely resemble those segments from recent B3.13 viruses detected in California in humans, dairy cattle and poultry.
This analysis supports the conclusion that the overall risk to the general public associated with the ongoing HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle and poultry has not changed and remains low at this time.
What to Know This is a technical summary of an analysis of the genomic sequence data for an influenza A(H5N1) virus from a pediatric case in California that was confirmed by CDC on November 22.
This analysis supports the conclusion that the overall risk to the general public associated with the ongoing HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle and poultry has not changed and remains low at this time.
CDC Update December 10, 2024 – As previously reported, CDC, in partnership with the California Department of Public Health (CDPH), confirmed a human infection with avian influenza A(H5N1) virus (H5N1 bird flu) in a child in California on November 22, 2024.
The patient was initially detected as a suspected case of A(H5N1) through influenza testing and reported to CDPH through influenza surveillance, with initial subtyping conducted by the Stanford Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory and presumptive positive test results reported by CDPH on November 19, 2024 .
Based on real-time RT-PCR cycle threshold (Ct) values determined during diagnostic testing, the nasopharyngeal specimen from the patient was found to have very low levels of influenza viral RNA.
Initial attempts to sequence the viral RNA by both Stanford Medicine and CDC using standard Next Generation Sequencing methodologies produced weak amplicons resulting from the PCR process that were challenging to sequence using both Nanopore and Illumina sequencing methodologies.
Additionally, efforts to isolate virus from the specimen were not successful.
By employing nucleic acid enrichment techniques, CDC and Stanford Medicine were able to generate the following viral RNA sequence data: full-length neuraminidase (NA) and nucleoprotein (NP) genes and partial hemagglutinin (HA), polymerase basic 2 (PB2), and polymerase basic 1 (PB1) genes.
CDC and Stanford Medicine have submitted these data for A/California/192/2024 to both the GISAID and GenBank databases with accession numbers EPI_ISL_19597300 and PQ724471-PQ724473, respectively.
The initial sequence analysis, which was based on short fragments of the HA and NA genes, indicated that the virus was a clade 2.3.4.4b A(H5N1) virus similar to viruses causing outbreaks in dairy cattle and poultry in the United States.
Upon obtaining full-length NA and NP genes, CDC was able to perform a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis, which showed that the virus was very similar to viruses detected in both dairy cattle and poultry as well as to A(H5N1) viruses from previous human infections in dairy workers in California.
Although the genetic data generated were insufficient to classify the virus as a specific genotype, the NA and NP sequences shared close nucleotide identity and phylogenetic clustering with NA and NP genes from recent B3.13 viruses detected in California in humans, dairy cattle and poultry.
Epidemiologic and environmental investigations did not clearly identify a possible source of exposure.
Given that additional sequence data from the case could not be generated, it is unlikely that the source of the child's exposure to A(H5N1) virus will be identified, thus completing the investigation into genotype and exposure.
In addition to the phylogenetic analysis of the NA and NP genes, CDC conducted an assessment of the sequences of the virus specimen for molecular changes that might impact infectivity or transmissibility in humans or reduce susceptibility to antivirals, such as oseltamivir.
The partial HA sequence, despite lacking portions of the 5' end of the gene, did not have additional changes in predicted antigenic sites compared to available clade 2.3.4.4b candidate vaccine viruses (CVVs).
Nor were changes identified in the receptor binding domain of the virus, indicating that the virus retained avian receptor binding properties with no mutations that would impact changes in infectivity or transmissibility in humans.
The PB2 and PB1 genes did not have genetic changes associated with mammalian adaptation, nor were there any genetic changes identified in NA sequence data that have been associated with reduced susceptibility to neuraminidase inhibitors, such as oseltamivir.
Lastly, the sequence data confirmed that the virus from this case is not closely related to the virus that caused severe illness in a human in British Columbia, Canada .
Collectively, these data indicate that the virus detected in this pediatric case is very similar to the majority of other influenza A(H5N1) viruses detected in the United States and bears no signs of concerning mutations.
While the sequence data obtained do not allow for definitive determination of the viral genotype, and no specific animal exposure source has been identified, these findings provide important contextual information and help to inform CDC's overall risk assessment.
They also highlight the value of a collaborative approach to this response, including virologic risk assessments based on genetic data.
Follow-up Actions Sporadic human infections with a novel influenza virus where animal exposure is not identified are not uncommon and have occurred during the current H5N1 bird flu outbreak in U.S.
dairy cattle and poultry and in past outbreaks around the world.
This case does not change CDC’s assessment of the immediate risk to the general public, which remains low at this time.
There is no evidence of human-to-human transmission of H5N1 virus in California or elsewhere in the United States.
However, persons with occupational exposure to infected animals, such as poultry cullers, poultry workers, and dairy farm workers, are at higher risk of influenza A(H5N1) virus infection.
Public health surveillance and investigations of all identified cases will continue at the local, state, and federal levels to monitor for concerning changes in the epidemiology of human cases or changes to influenza A(H5N1) viruses that could signal an increased public health threat – potentially including more severe outcomes in those currently at risk of exposure and infection, or increased risk to the general public.
ON THIS PAGE What to Know CDC Update Follow-up Actions RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights H5 Bird Flu Response: Focus Areas for Ongoing Public Health Risk Assessment Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Identified in a Person in Louisiana CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 CDC Expands H5N1 Guidance to Better Protect Farm Workers from Bird Flu VIEW ALL Bird Flu CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Identified in a Person in Louisiana For Everyone DEC.
26, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC has sequenced the influenza viruses in specimens collected from the patient in Louisiana who was infected with, and became severely ill from HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
The genomic sequences were compared to other HPAI A(H5N1) sequences from dairy cows, wild birds and poultry, as well as previous human cases and were identified as the D1.1 genotype.
The analysis identified low frequency mutations in the hemagglutinin gene of a sample sequenced from the patient, which were not found in virus sequences from poultry samples collected on the patient’s property, suggesting the changes emerged in the patient after infection.
Background This is a technical summary of an analysis of the genomic sequences of the viruses identified in two upper respiratory tract specimens from the patient who was severely ill from an infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus in Louisiana.
The patient was infected with A(H5N1) virus of the D1.1 genotype virus that is closely related to other D1.1 viruses recently detected in wild birds and poultry in the United States and in recent human cases in British Columbia, Canada, and Washington State.
This avian influenza A(H5N1) virus genotype is different from the B3.13 genotype spreading widely and causing outbreaks in dairy cows, poultry, and other animals, with sporadic human cases in the United States.
Deep sequencing of the genetic sequences from two clinical specimens from the patient in Louisiana was performed to look for changes associated with adaptation to mammals.
There were some low frequency changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) gene segment of one of the specimens that are rare in people but have been reported in previous cases of A(H5N1) in other countries and most often during severe infections.
One of the changes found was also identified in a specimen collected from the human case with severe illness detected in British Columbia, Canada, suggesting they emerged during the clinical course as the virus replicated in the patient.
Analysis of the N1 neuraminidase (NA), matrix (M) and polymerase acid (PA) genes from the specimens showed no changes associated with known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral drugs.
CDC Update December 26, 2024 – CDC has sequenced the HPAI A(H5N1) avian influenza viruses in two respiratory specimens collected from the patient in Louisiana who was severely ill from an A(H5N1) virus infection.
CDC received two specimens collected at the same time from the patient while they were hospitalized for severe respiratory illness: a nasopharyngeal (NP) and combined NP/oropharyngeal (OP) swab specimens.
Initial attempts to sequence the virus from the patient's clinical respiratory specimens using standard RNA extraction and multisegment-RTPCR (M-RTPCR)1 techniques yielded only partial genomic data and virus isolation was not successful.
Nucleic acid enrichment was needed to sequence complete genomes with sufficient coverage depth to meet quality thresholds.
CDC compared the influenza gene segments from each specimen with A(H5N1) virus sequences from dairy cows, wild birds, poultry and other human cases in the U.S.
and Canada.
The genomes of the virus (A/Louisiana/12/2024) from each clinical specimen are publicly posted in GISAID (EPI_ISL_19634827 and EPI_ISL_19634828) and GenBank (PQ809549-PQ809564).
Summary of amino acid mixtures identified in the hemagglutinin (HA) of clinical specimens from the patient.
Overall, the hemagglutinin (HA) sequences from the two clinical specimens were closely related to HA sequences detected in other D1.1 genotype viruses, including viruses sequenced from samples collected in November and December 2024 in wild birds and poultry in Louisiana.
The HA genes of these viruses also were closely related to the A/Ezo red fox/Hokkaido/1/2022 candidate vaccine virus (CVV) with 2 or 3 amino acid changes detected.
These viruses have, on average, 3 or 4 amino acid changes in the HA when compared directly to the A/Astrakhan/3212/2020 CVV sequence.
These data indicate the viruses detected in respiratory specimens from this patient are closely related to existing HPAI A(H5N1) CVVs that are already available to manufacturers, and which could be used to make vaccines if needed.
There were some differences detected between the NP/OP and the NP specimens.
The NP specimen, notably, did not have these low frequency changes indicating they may have been detected from swabbing the oropharyngeal cavity of the patient.
While these low frequency changes are rare in humans, they have been reported in previous cases of A(H5N1) in other countries and most often during severe disease2345.
The E186E/D mixture, for example, was also identified in a specimen collected from the severe human case detected in British Columbia, Canada67.
This summary analysis focuses on mixed nucleotide detections at residues A134V, N182K, E186D as these changes may result in increased virus binding to α2-6 cell receptors found in the upper respiratory tract of humans.
It is important to note that these changes represent a small proportion of the total virus population identified in the sample analyzed (i.e., the virus still maintains a majority of 'avian' amino acids at the residues associated with receptor binding).
The changes observed were likely generated by replication of this virus in the patient with advanced disease rather than primarily transmitted at the time of infection.
Comparison of influenza A(H5) sequence data from viruses identified in wild birds and poultry in Louisiana, including poultry identified on the property of the patient, and other regions of the United States did not identify these changes.
Of note, virus sequences from poultry sampled on the patient's property were nearly identical to the virus sequences from the patient but did not have the mixed nucleotides identified in the patient's clinical sample, strongly suggesting that the changes emerged during infection as virus replicated in the patient.
Although concerning, and a reminder that A(H5N1) viruses can develop changes during the clinical course of a human infection, these changes would be more concerning if found in animal hosts or in early stages of infection (e.g., within a few days of symptom onset) when these changes might be more likely to facilitate spread to close contacts.
Notably, in this case, no transmission from the patient in Louisiana to other persons has been identified.
The Louisiana Department of Public Health and CDC are collaborating to generate additional sequence data from sequential patient specimens to facilitate further genetic and virologic analysis.
Additional genomic analysis The genetic sequences of the A(H5N1) viruses from the patient in Louisiana did not have the PB2 E627K change or other changes in polymerase genes associated with adaptation to mammals and no evidence of low frequency changes at critical positions.
Analysis of the N1 neuraminidase (NA), matrix (M) and polymerase acid (PA) genes from the specimens showed no changes associated with known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral drugs.
The remainder of the genetic sequences of A/Louisiana/12/2024 were closely related to sequences detected in wild bird and poultry D1.1 genotype viruses, including poultry identified on the property of the patient, providing further evidence that the human case was most likely infected following exposure to birds infected with D1.1 genotype virus.
Follow Up Actions Overall, CDC considers the risk to the general public associated with the ongoing U.S.
HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak has not changed and remains low.
The detection of a severe human case with genetic changes in a clinical specimen underscores the importance of ongoing genomic surveillance in people and animals, containment of avian influenza A(H5) outbreaks in dairy cattle and poultry, and prevention measures among people with exposure to infected animals or environments.
ON THIS PAGE Background CDC Update RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response H5 Bird Flu Response: Focus Areas for Ongoing Public Health Risk Assessment Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Current Situation About Signs and Symptoms Causes and Spread Risk Factors Testing Prevention Treatment VIEW ALL Health Care Providers Clinical Overview Infection Control Guidance Managing Cats and Captive Wild Animals Exposed to Bird Flu (H5N1) Talking to Patients about Unpasteurized (Raw Milk) Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Oseltamivir VIEW ALL Public Health Recommendations for Monitoring and Testing Public Health Strategies for Bird Flu Laboratory and Testing Information for Novel Influenza A Viruses H5N1 Technical Report VIEW ALL Related Topics: Seasonal Flu | Swine Flu | Flu in Animals | Flu Vaccines Work | Pandemic Flu | Flu Burden View All Genetic Sequences of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Viruses Identified in a Person in Louisiana For Everyone DEC.
26, 2024 WHAT TO KNOW CDC has sequenced the influenza viruses in specimens collected from the patient in Louisiana who was infected with, and became severely ill from HPAI A(H5N1) virus.
The genomic sequences were compared to other HPAI A(H5N1) sequences from dairy cows, wild birds and poultry, as well as previous human cases and were identified as the D1.1 genotype.
The analysis identified low frequency mutations in the hemagglutinin gene of a sample sequenced from the patient, which were not found in virus sequences from poultry samples collected on the patient’s property, suggesting the changes emerged in the patient after infection.
Background This is a technical summary of an analysis of the genomic sequences of the viruses identified in two upper respiratory tract specimens from the patient who was severely ill from an infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus in Louisiana.
The patient was infected with A(H5N1) virus of the D1.1 genotype virus that is closely related to other D1.1 viruses recently detected in wild birds and poultry in the United States and in recent human cases in British Columbia, Canada, and Washington State.
This avian influenza A(H5N1) virus genotype is different from the B3.13 genotype spreading widely and causing outbreaks in dairy cows, poultry, and other animals, with sporadic human cases in the United States.
Deep sequencing of the genetic sequences from two clinical specimens from the patient in Louisiana was performed to look for changes associated with adaptation to mammals.
There were some low frequency changes in the hemagglutinin (HA) gene segment of one of the specimens that are rare in people but have been reported in previous cases of A(H5N1) in other countries and most often during severe infections.
One of the changes found was also identified in a specimen collected from the human case with severe illness detected in British Columbia, Canada, suggesting they emerged during the clinical course as the virus replicated in the patient.
Analysis of the N1 neuraminidase (NA), matrix (M) and polymerase acid (PA) genes from the specimens showed no changes associated with known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral drugs.
CDC Update December 26, 2024 – CDC has sequenced the HPAI A(H5N1) avian influenza viruses in two respiratory specimens collected from the patient in Louisiana who was severely ill from an A(H5N1) virus infection.
CDC received two specimens collected at the same time from the patient while they were hospitalized for severe respiratory illness: a nasopharyngeal (NP) and combined NP/oropharyngeal (OP) swab specimens.
Initial attempts to sequence the virus from the patient's clinical respiratory specimens using standard RNA extraction and multisegment-RTPCR (M-RTPCR)1 techniques yielded only partial genomic data and virus isolation was not successful.
Nucleic acid enrichment was needed to sequence complete genomes with sufficient coverage depth to meet quality thresholds.
CDC compared the influenza gene segments from each specimen with A(H5N1) virus sequences from dairy cows, wild birds, poultry and other human cases in the U.S.
and Canada.
The genomes of the virus (A/Louisiana/12/2024) from each clinical specimen are publicly posted in GISAID (EPI_ISL_19634827 and EPI_ISL_19634828) and GenBank (PQ809549-PQ809564).
Summary of amino acid mixtures identified in the hemagglutinin (HA) of clinical specimens from the patient.
Overall, the hemagglutinin (HA) sequences from the two clinical specimens were closely related to HA sequences detected in other D1.1 genotype viruses, including viruses sequenced from samples collected in November and December 2024 in wild birds and poultry in Louisiana.
The HA genes of these viruses also were closely related to the A/Ezo red fox/Hokkaido/1/2022 candidate vaccine virus (CVV) with 2 or 3 amino acid changes detected.
These viruses have, on average, 3 or 4 amino acid changes in the HA when compared directly to the A/Astrakhan/3212/2020 CVV sequence.
These data indicate the viruses detected in respiratory specimens from this patient are closely related to existing HPAI A(H5N1) CVVs that are already available to manufacturers, and which could be used to make vaccines if needed.
There were some differences detected between the NP/OP and the NP specimens.
The NP specimen, notably, did not have these low frequency changes indicating they may have been detected from swabbing the oropharyngeal cavity of the patient.
While these low frequency changes are rare in humans, they have been reported in previous cases of A(H5N1) in other countries and most often during severe disease2345.
The E186E/D mixture, for example, was also identified in a specimen collected from the severe human case detected in British Columbia, Canada67.
This summary analysis focuses on mixed nucleotide detections at residues A134V, N182K, E186D as these changes may result in increased virus binding to α2-6 cell receptors found in the upper respiratory tract of humans.
It is important to note that these changes represent a small proportion of the total virus population identified in the sample analyzed (i.e., the virus still maintains a majority of 'avian' amino acids at the residues associated with receptor binding).
The changes observed were likely generated by replication of this virus in the patient with advanced disease rather than primarily transmitted at the time of infection.
Comparison of influenza A(H5) sequence data from viruses identified in wild birds and poultry in Louisiana, including poultry identified on the property of the patient, and other regions of the United States did not identify these changes.
Of note, virus sequences from poultry sampled on the patient's property were nearly identical to the virus sequences from the patient but did not have the mixed nucleotides identified in the patient's clinical sample, strongly suggesting that the changes emerged during infection as virus replicated in the patient.
Although concerning, and a reminder that A(H5N1) viruses can develop changes during the clinical course of a human infection, these changes would be more concerning if found in animal hosts or in early stages of infection (e.g., within a few days of symptom onset) when these changes might be more likely to facilitate spread to close contacts.
Notably, in this case, no transmission from the patient in Louisiana to other persons has been identified.
The Louisiana Department of Public Health and CDC are collaborating to generate additional sequence data from sequential patient specimens to facilitate further genetic and virologic analysis.
Additional genomic analysis The genetic sequences of the A(H5N1) viruses from the patient in Louisiana did not have the PB2 E627K change or other changes in polymerase genes associated with adaptation to mammals and no evidence of low frequency changes at critical positions.
Analysis of the N1 neuraminidase (NA), matrix (M) and polymerase acid (PA) genes from the specimens showed no changes associated with known or suspected markers of reduced susceptibility to antiviral drugs.
The remainder of the genetic sequences of A/Louisiana/12/2024 were closely related to sequences detected in wild bird and poultry D1.1 genotype viruses, including poultry identified on the property of the patient, providing further evidence that the human case was most likely infected following exposure to birds infected with D1.1 genotype virus.
Follow Up Actions Overall, CDC considers the risk to the general public associated with the ongoing U.S.
HPAI A(H5N1) outbreak has not changed and remains low.
The detection of a severe human case with genetic changes in a clinical specimen underscores the importance of ongoing genomic surveillance in people and animals, containment of avian influenza A(H5) outbreaks in dairy cattle and poultry, and prevention measures among people with exposure to infected animals or environments.
ON THIS PAGE Background CDC Update RELATED PAGES News & Spotlights CDC Activities and Accomplishments to Date in 2024—2025 H5 Bird Flu Response H5 Bird Flu Response: Focus Areas for Ongoing Public Health Risk Assessment Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California CDC A(H5N1) Bird Flu Response Update November 18, 2024 VIEW ALL Bird Flu Technical Update: Summary Analysis of the Genetic Sequence of a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Identified in a Child in California SOURCES PRINT SHARE Bird Flu Avian influenza or bird flu refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 11, 2024 Facility Deactivation Alert Response PURPOSE Per NSSP policy, any facilities that fail to send data for visits that occurred in the past 90 days will be deactivated.
Outreach occurs beforehand to determine whether deactivation is appropriate.
This is essential to support data quality and ensure the Master Facility Table (MFT) remains up to date.
This guide can help site administrators navigate the process, which starts with an email notification.
Email alert prior to deactivation NSSP sends email alerts to sites when facilities have failed to send data for 30 days, and again at 90 days.
These alerts are part of an ongoing effort to improve data quality and make sure your site’s Master Facility Table (MFT) is current.
The emails will have a subject line reading: "WARNING: Facilities at Risk of Deactivation." These messages are generated on the second day of each month.
They contain tables listing: Facilities at risk of deactivation.
Facilities deactivated the previous month.
The status of these facilities has been updated in the MFT to Inactive, Pending OB (onboarding) Review.
This change in status does not affect data processing.
Facility data will continue to process in the production environment until the onboarding team finalizes the deactivation.
The MFT is vital because it contains all necessary information for processing site data.
Each site has its own MFT, and all sites follow the same standards and are required to provide the same details when adding a new facility.
The information in your MFT helps ensure that data from your facilities are mapped correctly to the BioSense Platform and are easily identifiable when data are queried there.
Keep your MFT current‎ As a best practice, keep your MFT current by reviewing it each month.
If you know of facilities that should be changed to Inactive or Onboarding, make the entry before you receive the first deactivation alert.
Always add a note in the Site Comments field reflecting the reason for the status change.
Steps to take following an alert Here’s what to do if you receive an alert: Review the identified facilities for accuracy.
Be prepared to work with the NSSP onboarding team.
Before completing the facility deactivation, the team contacts site administrators to determine whether the facilities should be inactive or if ongoing work will allow data transmittal to resume.
If facilities are inactive, the onboarding team will work with the site administrator to update the MFT facility status value to Inactive and enter the reason in the comment field.
Three outreach attempts The NSSP onboarding team will make three attempts to contact site administrators and confirm facility status before finalizing the deactivation.
We will alert individuals whose names are checked beside Onboarding Communications on the Access & Management Center (AMC) User Profile page.
(See the AMC Quick Start Guide, Section 4: Manage User Profile—Site-specific Communications.) If a site administrator does not want the facilities deactivated and anticipates that data submission will resume, the site administrator may request to set the status to Onboarding until site personnel are ready to onboard.
If the site administrator does not respond, the facility deactivation will be accepted on the last business day of the month.
Resolve issues before deadline‎ The deadline for completing the facility review with the onboarding team is the last business day of each month.
The deactivation process The deactivation process includes the following MFT updates: Facility Status: Inactive Review Reason: Status change from Active Review Status: Pending OB Approval Addition to the onboarding comment field: “This facility was deactivated per the 90-day policy.” If these facilities become active again, the onboarding process must be repeated to confirm data quality is at acceptable levels.
This process is supported by an NSSP policy that is intended to help ensure that the MFT is a true representation of facilities that send data to the BioSense Platform and that the current NSSP participation map (available on About NSSP) is an accurate depiction.
ON THIS PAGE Email alert prior to deactivation Steps to take following an alert Three outreach attempts The deactivation process SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 8, 2024 Onboarding Outreach: Moving Data Into Production PURPOSE The NSSP onboarding team takes a collaborative approach to move facilities through the onboarding process—from Staging to Production—via the BioSense Platform.
In this article, we describe the outreach that users can expect as they move through the process.
Moving facilities through the onboarding process Each month the NSSP onboarding team will contact site administrators to ask whether data being received in the Onboarding environment (used for staging) are ready for activation in the Production environment.
This inquiry isn't intended to replace onboarding activities that sites are implementing.
Instead, it's one of several steps in the collaborative approach that the onboarding team uses to move facilities through the onboarding process—from Staging to Production.
The onboarding team first checks whether facilities that actively send data to the Onboarding environment have data in XX_ST_Processed that meet minimum completeness requirements of 80% or greater across all Priority 1 data elements.
If completeness is good (above 80%), the onboarding team will ask site administrators if they are ready to advance these facilities to Active status in the Master Facility Table, provided the facilities can pass a validity review.
(Sometimes site administrators have reasons for keeping facilities in an Onboarding status and decline to have these facilities reviewed further.) If the site administrator responds "yes" and wants to move the facilities into Production, the onboarding team will: Run full validation checks on all facilities based on site feedback and with site administrator approval.
Promote all successfully validated facilities to Active status in the Master Facility Table.
Follow up with site administrators to confirm all approved facilities' data feeds are moved to the Production environment.
Reach out for onboarding assistance‎ The NSSP onboarding team will work with your health department, facility, vendor for electronic health records (EHR), or heath information exchange (HIE) to transmit syndromic surveillance data from internal medical record systems to the NSSP Biosense Platform.
If you represent an HIE, EHR vendor, or hospital and want to participate in the NSSP, please contact nssp@cdc.gov.
If you're already an NSSP participant and need onboarding assistance, please contact the Service Desk.
Checking in with sites approved for Activation Additionally, the onboarding team will contact site administrators whose facilities were recently approved for Activation but have not begun sending data to Production.
For each approved facility, the onboarding team will request: An update on activities required for moving facility data to the production feed.
An estimated time when the onboarding team should expect to see data arrive on production servers.
If you have questions about how to enlist the onboarding team's help in moving facility data from the Onboarding environment (used for staging) to the Production environment, please submit a ticket to the NSSP Service Desk (an account is required).
ON THIS PAGE Moving facilities through the onboarding process Checking in with sites approved for Activation SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Search Serologic Evidence of Recent Infection with Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5) Virus Among Dairy Workers — Michigan and Colorado, June–August 2024 Weekly / November 7, 2024 / 73(44);1004–1009 Print Alexandra M.
Mellis1; Joseph Coyle2; Kristen E.
Marshall3,4; Aaron M.
Frutos1,5; Jordan Singleton5,6; Cara Drehoff3,5; Angiezel Merced-Morales1; H.
Pamela Pagano1; Rachel O.
Alade5,7; Elizabeth B.
White1; Emma K.
Noble1; Crystal Holiday1; Feng Liu1; Stacie Jefferson1; Zhu-Nan Li1; F.
Liani Gross1; Sonja J.
Olsen1; Vivien G.
Dugan1; Carrie Reed1; Sascha Ellington1; Sophia Montoya3; Allison Kohnen3; Ginger Stringer3; Nisha Alden3; Peter Blank2; Derick Chia2; Natasha Bagdasarian2; Rachel Herlihy3; Sarah Lyon-Callo2; Min Z.
Levine1 (VIEW AUTHOR AFFILIATIONS) View suggested citation Summary What is already known about this topic?
Infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) viruses have been detected sporadically in dairy farm workers in the United States since April 2024.
Public health response efforts include active monitoring of workers exposed to HPAI A(H5) virus for illness.
What is added by this report?
Health officials conducted surveys and serologic testing to identify recent HPAI A(H5) infections among dairy workers in two states.
Serologic testing indicated that 7% of participating dairy workers had evidence of recent infection with HPAI A(H5) virus.
What are the implications for public health practice?
The findings support the need for active monitoring of exposed workers and testing to detect and treat HPAI A(H5) infections, including those in persons with very mild symptoms.
These efforts should be coupled with farmworker education about infection risks and prevention measures.
Article Metrics Altmetric: News (279) Blogs (13) Policy documents (1) X (443) Wikipedia (1) Reddit (1) Bluesky (138) Mendeley (30) 48 48 Total citations 48 Recent citations n/a Field Citation Ratio n/a Relative Citation Ratio Tables Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 Related Materials Article PDF Full Issue PDF Abstract Since April 2024, sporadic infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) viruses have been detected among dairy farm workers in the United States.
To date, infections have mostly been detected through worker monitoring, and have been mild despite the possibility of more severe illness.
During June–August 2024, CDC collaborated with the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment to implement cross-sectional serologic surveys to ascertain the prevalence of recent infection with HPAI A(H5) virus among dairy workers.
In both states, a convenience sample of persons who work in dairies was interviewed, and blood specimens were collected.
Among 115 persons, eight (7%; 95% CI = 3.6%–13.1%) had serologic evidence of recent infection with A(H5) virus; all reported milking cows or cleaning the milking parlor.
Among persons with serologic evidence of infection, four recalled being ill around the time cows were ill; symptoms began before or within a few days of A(H5) virus detections among cows.
This finding supports the need to identify and implement strategies to prevent transmission among dairy cattle to reduce worker exposures and for education and outreach to dairy workers concerning prevention, symptoms, and where to seek medical care if the workers develop symptoms.
Timely identification of infected herds can support rapid initiation of monitoring, testing, and treatment for human illness, including mild illness, among exposed dairy workers.
Top Introduction Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5) viruses have been circulating among animals worldwide since 1997, with sporadic human infections, primarily associated with exposure to infected poultry.* In March 2024, HPAI A(H5) clade 2.3.4.4.b B3.13 virus was first detected in dairy cattle in the United States, a novel animal reservoir; the first human infection in a dairy worker was detected in Texas in April 2024.† In response to the initial human infection, enhanced surveillance of dairy herds and poultry facilities in the United States has led to the detection of additional, sporadic human infections among workers in these industries.§ Despite ongoing efforts to monitor dairy workers for illness, test for HPAI A(H5), and offer antiviral treatment, several factors, including absence of serious illness to date, barriers to testing and reporting, and reluctance of some farms and workers to participate in monitoring efforts, have prevented gaining a full understanding of the extent of cow-to-human transmission.
CDC supported the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) in conducting seroprevalence investigations among workers on dairies known to be infected with HPAI A(H5) viruses.
The goals were to measure HPAI A(H5) seroprevalence, to identify risk factors for infection, including typical job tasks and use of personal protective equipment (PPE),¶ and to describe illnesses among seropositive persons.
Top Methods Population Investigated Field staff members collected anonymized serum specimens and conducted interviews with a convenience sample of farmworkers during June–August 2024.
To be eligible, persons had to work on dairies with herds with laboratory-confirmed infection with HPAI A(H5) viruses within the previous 90 days and to have reported no illness on the day of specimen collection.** In Michigan, dairy workers were invited to a central location to participate or offered dairy farm visits; in Colorado, teams visited three dairy farms and invited on-site participation.
The interview tools used by MDHHS and CDPHE were adapted from public materials available online.†† Interviews§§ were conducted in English and Spanish among workers from multiple affected dairies.¶¶ This activity was reviewed by CDC, CDPHE, and MDHHS, deemed not research, and was conducted consistent with applicable federal law and CDC policy.*** Laboratory Methods Serum specimens were tested at CDC laboratories††† for evidence of recent infection with HPAI A(H5) virus using microneutralization (MN) assays§§§ and hemagglutinin inhibition (HI) assays against wild type 2.3.4.4b A/Texas/37/2024 virus.¶¶¶ Modified HI assays were conducted using horse erythrocytes optimized for detecting antibodies to A(H5) viruses, as previously described (1,2).
Additional testing was performed on all antibody-positive specimens to eliminate any potential cross-reactivity between antibodies to seasonal influenza viruses and HPAI A(H5) and mitigate concerns about false-positive results (3).
Serum adsorption was performed on all antibody-positive specimens using a recombinant hemagglutinin head from an influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus (A/Wisconsin/588/2019).
Geometric mean titers (GMTs) from multiple replicates were calculated to present antibody levels.
Persons with a GMT ≥1:40 on both MN and HI assays were considered to have serologic evidence of HPAI A(H5) virus infection; all other results were considered negative.
Human specimens were also tested by MN assays against a seasonal influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus, A/Victoria/2570/2019.
Data Analysis Risk factors for having serologic evidence of HPAI A(H5) infection were assessed; p-values were calculated using Fisher’s exact test.
Top Results Population Characteristics A total of 115 dairy workers (45 in Michigan and 70 in Colorado) were interviewed and had serum specimens collected; the total number of dairies contacted or workers employed across these dairies was not recorded across states (Table 1).
Dairy workers typically spoke Spanish, and 72% of interviews were conducted in Spanish.
Specimens were collected at a median of 49 days after first exposure (IQR = 47–59 days) based on the date HPAI A(H5) infection in the herd was confirmed.
Among all workers, 21 (18%) reported receipt of the 2023–24 seasonal influenza vaccine.
Workers reported multiple job tasks; those most frequently reported included cleaning manure (62%), milking cows (59%), and moving or hauling cattle (49%).
A minority of workers reported close contact with other animal species in which HPAI A(H5) clade 2.3.4.4.b viruses might have been circulating, including cats (27% of workers), poultry (10%), and wild birds (8%).
After infection was detected in cows, a minority of workers reported use of CDC-recommended PPE for eye protection (37% reported use of safety goggles) or respiratory protection (21% reported use of N95**** or other respirators).†††† HPAI A(H5) Virus Seroprevalence Among the 115 dairy workers, eight (7%; 95% CI = 3.6%–13.1%) had serologic evidence of infection with A(H5) virus (both neutralizing antibody titers and HI antibody titers ≥1:40) (Table 2).
Overall, 78 (66%) workers had neutralizing antibody titers ≥1:40 against seasonal influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus, suggesting previous vaccination or infection with seasonal influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus.
All persons with a positive serology result were Spanish speakers, all reported cleaning the milking parlor, and most (88%) reported milking cows.
Among those with negative results, 70% were Spanish speakers, 38% reported cleaning the milking parlor, and 57% reported milking cows.
None of the workers with serologic evidence of infection used respiratory protection; three used recommended eye protection.
Among the eight workers with evidence of infection, only one reported close contact with cows known to be infected,§§§§ compared with 68 (64%) workers with negative test results.
However, all worked on farms with herds that were reported to public health officials as being HPAI A(H5)–infected.
Illness and Seropositivity to HPAI A(H5) Virus Among all 115 dairy workers, 46 (40%) reported feeling ill shortly before or during the period that A(H5) virus infection was confirmed in cows on the farms where they worked (Table 3).
Four of these illnesses were among the eight workers with serologic evidence of infection; among these persons, signs and symptoms most frequently reported were red, draining, or itching eyes (three).
These signs and symptoms were also frequently reported among workers who were ill but who had negative HPAI A(H5) serology (26 of 42; 62%).
Among the four workers with positive test results, feverishness, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, diarrhea, and headache were each reported by one worker; these signs and symptoms were also reported by persons with negative serology results.
Among persons with serologic evidence of infection, illness onset occurred a median of 5 days before the date of detection of HPAI A(H5) virus among cows within the dairy where they worked.
Top Discussion In this analysis, 7% of exposed dairy farm workers in Michigan and Colorado had serologic evidence of infection with HPAI A(H5).
These data reaffirm the importance of identifying and implementing interventions to prevent dairy cattle infections to reduce worker exposure and using infection prevention measures among farm workers when HPAI A(H5) virus infection is confirmed or suspected in a herd.¶¶¶¶ Before the emergence of clade 2.3.4.4.b viruses, estimates of anti-HPAI A(H5) seroprevalence among workers exposed to infected poultry were approximately 0%–0.6% globally (4) and approximately 4.6% in Egypt after the emergence of clade 2.3.4.4.b viruses in poultry (5).
Preliminary data available from a single dairy in the United States showed that two of 14 exposed workers had elevated neutralizing antibodies against HPAI A(H5) (6).
These data from Michigan and Colorado provide the largest sample to date, estimating the risk to dairy farm workers associated with the ongoing cattle epizootic.
Among workers who had antibodies to HPAI A(H5) virus, all (100%) reported cleaning the milking parlor, compared with 38% of workers without HPAI A(H5) virus antibodies.
Cleaning the milking parlor might be a higher-risk workplace activity given the high HPAI A(H5) viral load in the milk of infected cows (7).
None of the workers with HPAI A(H5) virus antibodies reported using the PPE recommended for working with HPAI A(H5)–infected animals, and use of recommended PPE was low among all workers (8).
These findings support the need for improved outreach to employers and workers about the risk for infection when working with dairy cattle infected with HPAI A(H5) viruses, and for the use of infection prevention measures such as PPE (8).
Only one of the persons whose test results indicated antibodies to HPAI A(H5) virus reported working with known HPAI A(H5) virus–infected cows, supporting the need for additional education and outreach to employers and farm workers once HPAI A(H5) is identified in herds.
Because most workers (and all those with positive serology results) spoke Spanish, this outreach should be culturally appropriate (9) and delivered in the workers’ spoken languages.
Approximately 80% of the dairy workers from this investigation population might also benefit from outreach offering seasonal influenza vaccination.
One half of the persons with antibodies to HPAI A(H5) virus did not report illness; asymptomatic infection has been observed in past HPAI A(H5) serologic investigations (4).
Some of the persons who did not report being ill might have experienced only very mild symptoms.
This finding highlights the need to actively monitor exposed workers by assessing the presence of any mild symptoms and provide a safe environment that encourages reporting of even mild illness and allows for rapid treatment with antivirals to prevent progression to severe disease, without risk for repercussions in terms of job security and pay (8).
Some of the persons with antibodies to HPAI A(H5) virus reported illnesses before herds were identified, underscoring the need for early outreach to dairy workers and rapid identification of herds as through expanded herd testing***** and bulk milk testing programs.††††† Limitations The findings in this report are subject to at least five limitations.
First, enrolled persons volunteered to participate; therefore, this sample might not be representative of all farmworkers.
Second, no demographic or medical history data were collected to examine host factors associated with infection.
Third, the fraction of HPAI A(H5) infections that are completely asymptomatic might be lower than the frequency of persons with positive serologic results who did not report illness in this report, because of perceptions of mild or subclinical illness and inability to recall.
Fourth, PPE questions were not cross-referenced with specific job duties, limiting inferences that can made about PPE effectiveness.
Finally, some persons with negative serologic results might have been infected but failed to mount detectable antibody responses for a variety of reasons.
Implications for Public Health Practice Primary prevention of HPAI A(H5) virus infections in animals, including dairy cows, is critical to reducing the risk for human infection and mitigating changes in the virus that could lead to a potential HPAI A(H5) pandemic.
During the period cattle are infected, employers can reduce the risk for worker infection by following CDC recommendations for engineering controls, worker education on the proper use of PPE, other administrative controls (e.g., testing animals for HPAI A(H5) and developing plans to monitor workers for illness), and providing appropriate PPE to workers (8).
This investigation identified low PPE adherence among dairy workers, which has been an ongoing challenge in hot, tight spaces where visibility around large animals is important and the use of eye protection can be challenging (10).
Increased use of PPE might be achieved through adapting current recommendations to meet the needs of dairy farm workers such as simplifying messaging and focusing on highest risk activities (10).
Employers should prioritize implementation of controls in hot work environments (e.g., worker training acclimatizing protocols, and work/rest schedules) to minimize heat exposures and heat injuries while wearing PPE.§§§§§ Another challenge in these environments with significant sources of particulate matter and bioaerosols (e.g., dirt, feces, and milk), is that mild irritation of eyes or the respiratory tract can occur frequently; a low threshold for reporting mild symptoms and seeking testing should be encouraged to identify whether these mild symptoms are caused by HPAI A(H5) virus.
Public health practitioners should modify messaging to address the unique setting of exposed dairy workers to identify and treat all HPAI A(H5) virus infections , including mild infections.
Finally, data from additional serosurveys could identify additional risk factors for infection and continue refinement of best practices for prevention.
Top Acknowledgments Alexis Burakoff, Erin Burns, Nicole Comstock, C.
Todd Davis, Lauren Duval, Elizabeth Harker, Makeda Kay, James Stevens, Xiaonan Sun, CDC; Marlee Barton, Cindy Camarillo, Kaitlin Harame, Rebecca Hermann, Ella Livesay, Frankie Lupercio, Leovi Madera, Shannon Matzinger, Mackenzie Owen, Jeannette Rodriguez, Alexandria Rossheim, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment; dedicated staff members from the Farmworker Outreach Services Division, Biomonitoring Epidemiology and Response Section, Bureau of Laboratories, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.
Top Corresponding author: Alexandra M.
Mellis, amellis@cdc.gov.
Top 1Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; 2Michigan Department of Health and Human Services; 3Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment; 4Office of Readiness and Response, CDC; 5Epidemic Intelligence Service, CDC; 6Coronavirus and Other Respiratory Viruses Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; 7Division of Birth Defects and Infant Disorders, National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC.
Top All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.
Top *  †  §  ;  ;  ¶  ** Interviews and blood collections were targeted to occur within 14–90 days of the first highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5) positive result for each dairy.
††  §§ Interviews included reports of symptoms or feeling ill around the time of first exposure to ill cows at the farm on which the person worked; job tasks; self-reported contact with cows that were ill with bird flu; use of PPE; exposure to other animals; and consumption of raw milk or raw milk products.
¶¶ To preserve anonymity, the number of participating dairies and the number of total workers employed at those dairies were not tracked in Michigan.
*** 45 C.F.R.
part 46.102(l)(2), 21 C.F.R.
part 56; 42 U.S.C.
241(d); 5 U.S.C.
552a; 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq.
††† Testing was conducted in biosafety level III–enhanced laboratories.
§§§  ¶¶¶ Influenza A/Texas/37/2024 was isolated from the human case of highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5) identified in Texas in 2024 and is antigenically similar to viruses that circulated among dairy cows in Michigan and Colorado in the summer of 2024.
**** N95 is a certification mark of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services registered in the United States and several international jurisdictions.
†††† Defined as the worker-reported date when cows first started showing symptoms of bird flu on this dairy (Michigan) or the quarantine date (Colorado).
§§§§ Persons were asked, “Did you ever work with cows that were sick with bird flu?” (Michigan).
Alternatively, persons were asked if they were within 6 feet of cows that were ill and then, “Were any of these cows known or suspected to have bird flu?” (Colorado).
Persons who answered “yes” to either of these questions were reported as having worked with cows with bird flu, and other responses were combined.
¶¶¶¶  *****  †††††  §§§§§  Top References Levine MZ, Holiday C, Liu F, et al.
Cross‐reactive antibody responses to novel H5Nx influenza viruses following homologous and heterologous prime‐boost vaccination with a prepandemic stockpiled A(H5N1) vaccine in humans.
J Infect Dis 2017;216(Suppl 4):S555–9.
 PMID:28934456 Levine MZ, Holiday C, Jefferson S, et al.
Heterologous prime-boost with A(H5N1) pandemic influenza vaccines induces broader cross-clade antibody responses than homologous prime-boost.
NPJ Vaccines 2019;4:22.
 PMID:31149353 Toner ES, Adalja AA, Nuzzo JB, Inglesby TV, Henderson DA, Burke DS.
Assessment of serosurveys for H5N1.
Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:1206–12.
 PMID:23386633 Chen X, Wang W, Wang Y, et al.
Serological evidence of human infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) virus: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
BMC Med 2020;18:377.
 PMID:33261599 Gomaa M, Moatasim Y, El Taweel A, et al.
We are underestimating, again, the true burden of H5N1 in humans.
BMJ Glob Health 2023;8:e013146.
 PMID:37643809 Shittu I, Silva D, Oguzie JU, et al.
A One Health investigation into H5N1 avian influenza virus epizootics on two dairy farms.
 Halwe NJ, Cool K, Breithaupt A, et al.
H5N1 clade 2.3.4.4b dynamics in experimentally infected calves and cows.
Nature 2024.
 PMID:39321846 CDC.
Avian influenza (bird flu).
Interim guidance for employers to reduce the risk of novel influenza A for people working with or exposed to animals.
Accessed October 22, 2024.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2024.
 Drehoff CC, White EB, Frutos AM, et al.; H5N1 Field Investigation Team.
Cluster of influenza A(H5) cases associated with poultry exposure at two facilities—Colorado, July 2024.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:734–9.
 PMID:39207932 Bagdasarian N, Wineland N, Callo SL.
Personal protective equipment guidance for highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 should be adapted to meet the needs of dairy farm workers.
J Infect Dis 2024;230:543–4.
 PMID:39283939 Top TABLE 1.
Characteristics of dairy workers enrolled in serosurveys and potential workplace exposures to highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5) viruses — Colorado and Michigan, 2024 Characteristic No.
(%) Overall N = 115 Colorado n = 70 Michigan n = 45 Spanish-language survey administered* 83 (72) 63 (90) 20 (44) No.
of days since first exposure,† median (IQR) 49 (47–59) 48 (47–49) 61 (44–84) Received 2023–2024 seasonal influenza vaccination§ 21 (18) 13 (19) 8 (18) Job tasks after cows became ill No.
of job tasks (IQR) 5 (2–8) 4 (2–6) 6.0 (4–9) Breeding cows 30 (26) 12 (17) 18 (40) Changing or cleaning bedding 38 (33) 18 (26) 20 (44) Checking milk quality 32 (28) 19 (27) 13 (29) Cleaning the milking parlor 49 (43) 28 (40) 21 (47) Feeding cows 46 (40) 27 (39) 19 (42) Helping with calving 43 (37) 16 (23) 27 (60) Milking cows 68 (59) 36 (51) 32 (71) Moving or hauling cattle 56 (49) 33 (47) 23 (51) Moving or hauling milk 15 (13) 7 (10) 8 (18) Removing manure or dung 71 (62) 37 (53) 34 (76) Vaccinating cows 51 (44) 26 (37) 25 (56) Working in maternity pens 49 (43) 23 (33) 26 (58) Working with calves 46 (40) 22 (31) 24 (53) Reported contact with cows with avian influenza¶ Yes 69 (60) 31 (44) 38 (84) No or unknown 46 (40) 39 (56) 7 (11) Other animal exposures reported Cats 31 (27) 10 (14) 21 (47) Dogs 22 (19) 9 (13) 13 (29) Pigs 1 (0.9) 0 (—) 1 (2.2) Poultry 12 (10) 4 (5.7) 8 (18) Rodents 7 (6.1) 1 (1.4) 6 (13) Wild birds 9 (7.8) 2 (2.9) 7 (16) Other (sheep, goats, horses, and deer) 8 (7.0) 2 (2.9) 6 (13) Use of PPE** Apron 25 (22) 14 (20) 11 (24) Boots or boot covers 70 (61) 31 (44) 39 (87) Coveralls 29 (25) 12 (17) 17 (38) Gloves 75 (65) 33 (47) 42 (93) Head or hair cover 48 (42) 29 (41) 19 (42) N95 or other respirator 24 (21) 10 (14) 14 (31) Safety goggles 42 (37) 27 (39) 15 (33) Use of non-PPE items Bandana or gaiter 16 (14) 13 (19) 3 (7) Sunglasses 21 (18) 11 (16) 10 (23) Other type of mask 14 (20) 14 (20) 0 (—) Consumption of raw dairy products 11 (10) 6 (9) 5 (11) Abbreviation: PPE = personal protective equipment.
* Spanish compared with English; interviews were available in other languages using real-time translation services, but only Spanish and English interviews were conducted.
† Defined as the worker-reported date when cows first started showing symptoms of bird flu at this dairy (in Michigan) or the quarantine date (in Colorado).
§ One person in Colorado reported unknown influenza vaccination status.
¶ Persons were asked, “Did you ever work with cows that were sick with bird flu?” (Michigan).
Alternatively, persons were asked if they were within 6 feet of cows that were ill and then, “Were any of these cows known or suspected to have bird flu?” (Colorado).
Persons who answered “yes” to either of these questions were reported as having worked with cows with bird flu, and other responses were combined.
** Persons were asked about use of coveralls, safety goggles, gloves, waterproof aprons, sunglasses, bandanas or gaiters, N95 masks or other respirators, head or hair covers, rubber boots or boot covers, or other PPE.
In Colorado, persons were also asked about use of other types of masks.
Persons were asked if they wore this PPE “after cows started to get sick” (Michigan) or asked if they used this PPE since the week after the quarantine date (Colorado).
Top TABLE 2.
Potential risk factors for serologic evidence of infection with highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5) among dairy workers (N = 115) — Colorado and Michigan, 2024 Characteristic No.
(%) Seronegative n = 107; 93% of total Seropositive n = 8; 7% of total p-value* Spanish-language survey 75 (70) 8 (100) 0.10 State Colorado 64 (60) 6 (75) 0.5 Michigan 43 (40) 2 (25) — No.
* P-values were calculated using Fisher’s exact test.
† Influenza A, H5 virus antibody titers were generated using influenza A/Texas/37/2024 virus, a wild-type virus isolated from the March 2024 human infection in Texas.
§ Seasonal influenza A, H1 virus titers were generated using A/Victoria/2570/2019, a virus similar to both circulating influenza A, H1N1 viruses, and the vaccine strain.
¶ Seasonal influenza vaccination was unknown for one seronegative person.
** Persons were asked, “Did you ever work with cows that were sick with bird flu?” (Michigan).
Alternatively, persons were asked if they were within 6 feet of cows that were ill and then, “Were any of these cows known or suspected to have bird flu?” (Colorado).
Persons who answered “yes” to either of these questions were reported as having worked with cows with bird flu, and other responses were combined.
†† Persons were asked about use of coveralls, safety goggles, gloves, waterproof aprons, sunglasses, bandanas or gaiters, N95 masks or other respirators, head or hair covers, rubber boots or boot covers, or other PPE.
In Colorado, persons were also asked about use of other types of masks.
Persons were asked if they wore this PPE “after cows started to get sick” (Michigan) or asked if they used this PPE since the week after the quarantine date (Colorado).
Top TABLE 3.
Characteristics of illnesses reported by dairy workers, by seropositivity to highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5) (N = 115) — Colorado and Michigan, 2024 Reported signs and symptoms* Serologic test result, no.
(%) Negative n = 107 Positive n = 8 Any self-reported illness 42 (39) 4 (50) No.
Symptoms were only elicited among persons who reported illnesses.
† Defined as the worker-reported date when cows first began showing symptoms of bird flu on this dairy farm (Michigan), or the quarantine date (Colorado).
Top Suggested citation for this article: Mellis AM, Coyle J, Marshall KE, et al.
Serologic Evidence of Recent Infection with Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5) Virus Among Dairy Workers — Michigan and Colorado, June–August 2024.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:1004–1009.
DOI:  .
MMWR and Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report are service marks of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All HTML versions of MMWR articles are generated from final proofs through an automated process.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 21, 2024 New Facility Onboarding Overview A CDC job aid to support site administrators PURPOSE NSSP’s BioSense Platform is the core component of an integrated, nationwide system for public health syndromic surveillance.
Onboarding is a collaborate process that involves setting up a live data feed.
This guide describes each phase in the process.
The process This content is part of a series of online job aids related to onboarding.
These resources are meant to be used together along with New Facility Onboarding —The Complete Guide.
Download this job aid: New Facility Onboarding Overview Onboarding is a collaborative process.
NSSP and site teams will work with a facility, health department, electronic health records vendor, or health information exchange to transmit syndromic data from medical record systems to the NSSP BioSense Platform, comply with messaging guidance, and begin a live data feed.
NSSP's BioSense Platform is the core component of this integrated, nationwide system for public health syndromic surveillance.
The BioSense Platform is a secure, cloud-based computing environment that enables public health agencies to conduct syndromic surveillance and analyze and share syndromic data on a common platform.
Everyone has access to the same analytic and surveillance tools, follows the same standards for data exchange, and uses the same process to transmit syndromic data.
This guide describes each phase in the process.
At the conclusion of onboarding, site and facility staff will have worked with the NSSP onboarding team to successfully transmit compliant data.
New facility onboarding overview Site administrators follow this process to help facilities and sites successfully onboard.
NSSP uses a four-phase approach to bring facilities onboard the BioSense Platform: Phase 1: Engage begins when a site administrator creates an NSSP Service Desk ticket and requests onboarding for a facility.
A site administrator can also initiate the process by adding a new facility to the Master Facility Table (MFT) and setting the facility status to Onboarding.
During Engage, the site will: Engage with facility and NSSP for onboarding Prepare the facility for onboarding by adding the facility details to the MFT Prepare HL7®1 messages to be sent to the onboarding environment for testing and validation Prepare facility for connectivity Phase 2: Connect begins once a new facility starts the process of connecting to a feed.
As part of the Connect phase, the site will either connect the facility to an existing feed or request setup for a new feed via the NSSP Service Desk.
In this scenario, the site will: Choose between SFTP and PHINMS secure data exchange technologies (SFTP is preferred) Successfully connect with BioSense Platform servers Upload a "hello world" test message Submit live facility data to the onboarding feed Phase 3: Validate measures whether the received messages comply with PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance and BioSense Platform requirements.
During the Validate phase, the site will: Ensure timeliness of message delivery is consistently maintained, preferably with messages received within 24 to 48 hours of the visit Identify and resolve data issues to achieve requirements for validity, completeness Strive to improve data quality in all areas beyond minimum requirements Update facility status in MFT to Active and receive approval from NSSP Submit live facility data to the production feed Phase 4: Operate begins once a feed or facility has been approved to send live data into production.
As part of the Operate phase, sites will: Maintain data feeds As needed, collaborate to improve data quality Monitor data feeds for timeliness and consistency Monitor feed, facility connections, and data quality by using NSSP tools such as the Data Quality Dashboard, Data Quality on Demand programs, ESSENCE, Posit Workbench/RStudio, and SAS Studio Resources Key BioSense Platform tools and resources are listed below.
Posit Workbench and SAS Studio ESSENCE Access & Management Center Data Access Rules Quick Start Guide ON THIS PAGE The process New facility onboarding overview Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 23, 2024 Data Quality Tools WHAT TO KNOW Data are the foundation for making sound public health decisions.
The NSSP BioSense Platform hosts several tools for monitoring production-level data for timeliness, completeness, and validity of Priority 1 and 2 data elements.
Combined, these tools provide a thorough approach to monitoring, evaluating, and staging interventions for all data elements.
Assessing your data During new site and new facility onboarding, NSSP business rules require 80% or higher completeness of Priority 1 elements to successfully process data in the staging environment.
Once a site or facility has onboarded and data are flowing in the production environment, we recommend that site personnel continue to work on the completeness of Priority 2 elements because these are meaningful to interpreting data trends.
Review the Daily Site Processing Summary often‎ Refer to the Daily Site Processing Summary often—every day if possible.
A quick scan of the email will show the status of your site's data.
If you have questions, suggestions for improving the Daily Summary, or concerns about data processing, please email us at nssp@cdc.gov or create an NSSP Service Desk ticket (account access required).
Guides and manuals Expand All Data Quality Dashboard Data-Quality-on-Demand Programs Daily Site Processing Summary emails ESSENCE FAQs Expand All How can I use the Data Quality Dashboard to detect data issues?
How can I use the Data Quality Dashboard to get facility-level information on Exceptions?
What is the Daily Site Processing Summary?
What is the Daily Quality Quarterly Executive Summary?
Will I get an alert if my facility stops sending data?
Articles How Data Quality Filters Work Data quality filters help control for variation when grouping visits into surveillance categories.
21, 2024 Using ESSENCE to Monitor Changes in Data Quality ESSENCE and the Data Quality Dashboard help public health professionals monitor data quality.
10, 2024 Updating Data Quality Filters in the New Year Ensure the query calculation for your filter or application programming interface remains current.
21, 2024 Contact us Data are the foundation for making sound public health decisions.
NSSP distributes reports that flag potential problems early so that corrective actions can be taken immediately.
If you have questions about the reports described above—the Daily Site Processing Summary or Quarterly Summary—our NSSP site inspectors are willing to assist.
Please contact the NSSP Service Desk to ask questions or speak with a site inspector.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 17, 2024 Understanding How Facility Status Changes Affect Processing PURPOSE Site administrators and other users are responsible for updating facility data in the BioSense Platform Master Facility Table (MFT).
A change in facility status to Active or Inactive does not immediately affect how data are processed.
Use this guide for help understanding if your facility's data will process successfully in the Production environment.
Introduction The MFT contains essential information for processing site data.
It also ensures data are mapped correctly in the BioSense Platform for easy identification when queried.
Site administrators (and read- and edit-only MFT users) are responsible for updating facility data.
View Larger Keep the MFT up to date to map and process data correctly.
Certain changes—such as a change in facility status—will always trigger a review by the onboarding team and require their approval.
But this change in facility status to Active or Inactive does not immediately affect how a facility's data are processed.
The site administrator might be left wondering "Will my facility's data process successfully in the Production environment?" The answer is not straightforward.
The success of the data processing will depend on the MFT Facility Status and Review Status combined.
Shown below are different combinations of Facility and Review Status and the data processing results you can expect.
What you can expect Combination 1 Facility Status: Active Review Status: Complete Results Yes!
Data will process in the Production environment and be available in ESSENCE.
View Larger Facility Status: Active | Review Status: Complete View Larger Operational Crosswalk: Active and Complete Combination 2 Facility Status: Active Review Status: Pending OB Approval Results Maybe!
Check the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk: Yes, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Active.
No, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Onboarding or Inactive.
View Larger Facility Status: Active | Review Status: Pending OB Approval View Larger Operational Crosswalk: Onboarding Combination 3 Facility Status: Active Review Status: Pending Site Review Results No!
In this scenario, a site administrator has requested that a facility be Activated in Production and, upon review, the onboarding team has denied the request.
For the reason, go to the Onboarding Comments section of the facility's MFT page.
When a request is denied, the site administrator will receive an email noting that the Review Status has changed to Pending Site Review.
Although the MFT still has a Facility Status of Active, a quick review of the Operational Crosswalk will show that the actual Facility Status remains Onboarding.
To correct this, a site administrator must go to the facility's page in the MFT and click the Cancel Requested Changes button at the bottom of the page.
The page will revert to its previous status, removing all changes made since the last successful save.
View Larger Facility Status: Active | Review Status: Pending Site Review View Larger Operational Crosswalk: Onboarding View Larger Cancel Requested Changes Ensuring data will process Another question that's often asked is "Will my facility's data process (in Staging)?" To answer that question, here are some combinations of Facility and Review status and results to expect: Combination 4 Facility Status: Active Review Status: Any Results Yes!
For data to process in Production Onboarding (Staging), the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk must be either Onboarding or Active.
In the preceding scenarios, the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk was either Active or Onboarding.
View Larger Facility Status: Active | Review Status: Pending Site Review Combination 5 Facility Status: Onboarding Review Status: Complete Results Yes!
Data will process in Production Onboarding (Staging) and be available in Stage-ESSENCE.
If data are sent to Production, these data will be routed to Exceptions.
View Larger Facility Status: Onboarding | Review Status: Complete View Larger Operational Crosswalk: Onboarding Combination 6 Facility Status: Onboarding Review Status: Pending OB Approval Results Maybe!
Check the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk: Yes, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Onboarding or Active.
No, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Inactive or if no row exists.
If data are sent to Production, these data will be routed to Exceptions.
View Larger Facility status: Onboarding | Review Status: Pending OB Approval View Larger Facility Status Inactive Status of Inactive, Planned, or Not Planned Two final questions are "What happens to these data when the facility's status is Inactive, Planned, or Not Planned?" and "Will data process?" When facilities are initially added to the MFT, they can be set to Planned or Not Planned.
Once a facility status is set to Onboarding, it can't be reset to Planned or Not Planned.
To indicate that data should no longer be expected from a facility (either temporarily or permanently), a facility's status may be updated to Inactive.
Combination 7 Facility Status: Inactive, Planned, Not Planned Review Status: Complete Results No!
Data are not expected to be received.
Any data received to either the Production or Production Onboarding environments will be routed to exceptions.
View Larger Facility Status Inactive, Planned, Not Planned | Review Status: Complete View Larger Operational Crosswalk Facility Status Inactive Combination 8 Facility Status: Inactive Review Status: Pending OB Approval Results Maybe!
Check the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk.
Yes, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Onboarding or Active.
No, if the Facility Status in the Operational Crosswalk is Inactive.
This applies to both the Production and Production Onboarding (Staging) environments.
View Larger Facility Status: Inactive | Review Status: Pending OB Approval View Larger Operational Crosswalk: Active Reach out for help‎ If you have questions about Facility Status and how it affects data processing, please email nssp@cdc.gov or create an NSSP Service Desk ticket.
The onboarding team is ready to help!
ON THIS PAGE Introduction What you can expect Ensuring data will process Status of Inactive, Planned, or Not Planned SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 21, 2024 Master Facility Table WHAT TO KNOW The Master Facility Table (MFT) is an SQL table housed on the BioSense Platform.
It contains site-specific information that will be part of your syndromic surveillance messages.
These messages are critical to getting an accurate health picture and for identifying outbreaks, monitoring trends, and detecting environmental hazards.
Accuracy is key, because MFT fields ensure data map correctly and are easily identifiable when queried.
Guides and manuals Master Facility Table Quick Start Guide Master Facility Table Companion Guide Master Facility Table Data Reference Guide FAQs Expand All Who can access the Master Facility Table, and why is access restricted?
Why is it important to keep information in the MFT current during onboarding?
Articles Understanding How Facility Status Changes Affect Processing Learn how changes in facility status can affect how data are processed in the BioSense Platform.
17, 2024 Facility Deactivation Alert Response Facilities that fail to send data for visits that occurred in the past 90 days can be deactivated.
10, 2024 Access & Management Center The Access & Management Center (AMC) is a launching pad for NSSP applications, including the MFT.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 21, 2024 Pre-Onboarding: New Facility Planning A CDC job aid to support site administrators PURPOSE Preparing is an important step to ensure success when onboarding facilities to the BioSense Platform.
This guide is intended for site administrators to learn about roles and responsibilities prior to beginning the process.
Step by step This content is part of a series of online job aids related to onboarding.
These resources are meant to be used together along with New Facility Onboarding—The Complete Guide.
Download this job aid: Pre-Onboarding: New Facility Planning Onboarding is a collaborative process in which the NSSP and site teams work with a facility, health department, electronic health records vendor, or health information exchange to transmit syndromic data from medical record systems to the NSSP BioSense Platform.
This guide will take the site administrator step by step through the activities that must be completed by the site's team before submitting a Service Desk ticket to start the onboarding process.
The onboarding process has four distinct steps.
Step 1 Review Site Support Models to confirm the level of support needed during the onboarding process.
Step 2 If applicable, develop a Facility Recruitment Plan to prioritize the facilities you want to onboard.
See New Facility Onboarding—The Complete Guide, 3.6 Recruitment Plan.
Step 3 Establish optional service-level agreements if needed: Downstream Data Use Agreement and BioSense Onboarding Process Facility Acknowledgement (New Facility Onboarding—The Complete Guide, Appendix B, Facility BOPA).
Step 4 Identify your team.
NSSP recommends using guidance on definitions from New Facility Onboarding—The Complete Guide to fill site roles and responsibilities (see 3.3 Site Roles and Responsibilities): Site administrator Feed Administrator to establish feed connectivity Technical Contact to develop HL7® messages1 Step 5 Review training and resources: New Facility Onboarding—The Complete Guide NSSP Technical Resources NSSP Onboarding Resources Public Health Information Network (PHIN) Tools and Resources, PHIN Guides National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) Data Validation Tools Master Facility Table Quick Start Guide Step 6 Create and test the following HL7 message types: A01—Admit/Visit A03—Discharge/End Visit A04—Registration A08—Update Patient Information Message developers should always use the latest version of the PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance, located on the CDC PHIN website.
Upload message (follow NSSP file-naming conventions).
To correct errors, use the NIST website tool to test at least two samples of each message type.
Ensure data elements map correctly.
If needed, remove personally identifiable information (PII).
STEP 7: Resolve errors, if applicable, and resubmit HL7® messages to site.
STEP 8: If applicable, download the NIST HL7® Validation Report and confirm successful results.
STEP 9: Update the site Master Facility Table (MFT) to include the facility you want to onboard.
Set the facility being onboarded to an onboarding status.
To add a new facility, see the Master Facility Table Quick Start Guide.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health MARCH 22, 2024 Updating Data Quality Filters in the New Year PURPOSE Make sure the query calculation for your filter or application programming interface remains current, especially as we advance into a new year.
Get tips on what to account for.
Check time coverage settings Time gets away from us.
Then, surprise!
Your data look odd.
This can happen if the query calculation for your filter or application programming interface (API) isn't current or accounting for the new year.
At a minimum, check the time coverage of the data quality filters in your API URLs.
You might need to modify the filters to account for rolling into a new year.
Example NSSP analysts want to automate a routine product that generates a time series figure of weekly emergency department (ED) encounters identified by a chief complaint/discharge diagnosis (CC/DD) category.
The R code to generate this figure uses an ESSENCE API URL.
The API pulls data from January 2018 to date and has CoV and DDI data quality filter parameters to limit data to those facilities with consistent reporting and high completeness of discharge diagnoses.
Because the R code was developed in mid-2022, the 4-year-to-date filters were used to generate the API URL.
In January 2023, the code was not modified and began producing figures with weekly counts higher than expected.
What happened Because the current year was now 2024, the 5-year-to-date filters only covered January 2019 to date—plus, the number of facilities from which data were included had increased.
To constrain facilities based on data from 2018 to date, the data quality filter parameters in the API URL must be updated to 6-year-to-date parameters.
After this modification, the weekly trends will be consistent with results generated in 2023.
RELATED PAGES Helpful Articles The Case of the Missing Chief Complaint BioSense Creates Unique Visit Identifier How Data Quality Filters Work Diagnosis Codes Raise Alarms for Polio VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) How Data Quality Filters Work SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 19, 2024 Access & Management Center WHAT TO KNOW The Access & Management Center (AMC) is a launching pad for NSSP applications.
It also supports the BioSense Platform’s administrative functions for implementing tools and applications.
For those with elevated privileges, such as site administrators, the AMC allows the rules that control access to site data to be adjusted.
AMC users AMC serves as a gateway to BioSense Platform tools, including ESSENCE.
To request access, reach out to the site administrator at your state or local health department.
They serve as liaisons between users and NSSP.
Site administrators can also answer questions and provide resources.
If more help is needed, you can also reach out to us at nssp@cdc.gov.
Quick link‎ Registered users can access BioSense Platform tools through the Access & Management Center.
Log in now Passwords The username and password used for the AMC are the same credentials used to log in to other tools, including ESSENCE, Posit Workbench/RStudio, and SAS Studio (if applicable).
Elevated privileges For those with elevated privileges, such as site administrators, the AMC provides additional functionality.
Options include managing users and granting access to information, tools, and platform-wide communications.
Guides and manuals Expand All All users Site administrators SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 19, 2024 Access & Management Center WHAT TO KNOW The Access & Management Center (AMC) is a launching pad for NSSP applications.
It also supports the BioSense Platform’s administrative functions for implementing tools and applications.
For those with elevated privileges, such as site administrators, the AMC allows the rules that control access to site data to be adjusted.
AMC users AMC serves as a gateway to BioSense Platform tools, including ESSENCE.
To request access, reach out to the site administrator at your state or local health department.
They serve as liaisons between users and NSSP.
Site administrators can also answer questions and provide resources.
If more help is needed, you can also reach out to us at nssp@cdc.gov.
Quick link‎ Registered users can access BioSense Platform tools through the Access & Management Center.
Log in now Passwords The username and password used for the AMC are the same credentials used to log in to other tools, including ESSENCE, Posit Workbench/RStudio, and SAS Studio (if applicable).
Elevated privileges For those with elevated privileges, such as site administrators, the AMC provides additional functionality.
Options include managing users and granting access to information, tools, and platform-wide communications.
Guides and manuals Expand All All users Site administrators RELATED PAGES Onboarding Resources Laboratory Data Technical Resources Onboarding FAQs Message Mapping Guide Companion Guide: NSSP ED Data on Respiratory Illness VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Message Mapping Guide SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All Public Health APRIL 20, 2024 Choose a Site Support Model Prior to Onboarding A CDC job aid to support site administrators PURPOSE This guide is intended to help site administrators choose a Site Support Model, which determines the level of support provided by the NSSP team.
This can help the onboarding process go more smoothly.
Varying levels of support This content is part of a series of online job aids related to onboarding.
These resources are meant to be used together along with New Facility Onboarding —The Complete Guide.
Download this job aid: Site Support Model This guide is intended to help site administrators choose a level of support that meets their site needs.
Onboarding is not a one-size-fits-all process.
Your choice of Site Support Model determines how much technical support the NSSP team will provide when you onboard new facilities.
Select a Site Support Model before you start the onboarding process.
There are three models: full, blended, or self-support.
If you're unsure, please contact the NSSP Service Desk (account required).
Selecting a Site Support Model prior to onboarding can help streamline the process.
Self-Support Model Sites complete the engage, connect, validate, and operate onboarding phases with minimal support.
Self-Support Model Self-Support Model Phase Responsibility Characteristics Engage Site Guides facilities through onboarding processes Connect Site/Onboarding Guides facility with connectivity to the BioSense Platform Validate Site Validates raw and processed data Operate Site/Onboarding Monitors facility activity and timeliness; performs production support and implements improvement initiatives Blended-Support Model The onboarding team will provide varying levels of support across all phases.
Priority for registration and onboarding will vary.
If support is needed for onboarding, please contact the NSSP Service Desk .
Blended-Support Model Blended-Support Model Phase Responsibility Characteristics Engage Site/Onboarding Guides facilities through onboarding processes Connect Site/Onboarding Guides facility with connectivity to the BioSense Platform Validate Site/Onboarding Validates raw and processed data (optional); requests onboarding support if needed Operate Site/Onboarding Monitors facility activity and timeliness; performs production support and implements improvement initiatives Full-Support Model The onboarding team will provide substantial assistance to the site and associated facilities across all phases of onboarding.
The NSSP onboarding team will schedule activities and involve the site administrator at each step, and in every activity.
If support is needed for onboarding, please contact the NSSP Service Desk .
NSSP's expectation is that site administrators will gain proficiency and eventually move from the full support to blended or self-support model.
Sites that request full support will receive the lowest priority during registration and onboarding and will have the least control over their target onboarding dates.
Full-Support Model Full-Support Model Phase Responsibility Characteristics Engage Onboarding Guides sites through onboarding activities with facilities Connect Onboarding Guides facility with connectivity to the BioSense Platform Validate Onboarding Assesses quality of the facility’s raw and processed data and gives feedback to site Operate Onboarding Monitors facility activity and timeliness; recommends improvements to site administrator RELATED PAGES Onboarding Resources New Facility Onboarding Overview Pre-Onboarding: New Facility Planning Syndromic Data Element Prioritization Phase 1: New Facility Steps to Engage VIEW ALL National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) Syndromic Data Element Prioritization SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All MARCH 22, 2024 Diagnosis Codes Raise Alarms for Polio Among Older Residents PURPOSE When a polio case was diagnosed in New York, red flags went off.
Syndromic surveillance seemed an obvious strategy to monitor for additional cases.
A deeper dive, however, revealed more to the story and a lesson about how a simplistic analysis can be misleading.
Data need to be analyzed, checked, and rechecked.
Investigating a red flag After the July 2022 diagnosis of a polio case in New York, syndromic surveillance seemed an obvious strategy to monitor for additional cases.
Even though physicians were primed to look for polio symptoms and state and federal reporting systems for polio are well established, syndromic surveillance complements these efforts with additional insights from data already being collected by public health jurisdictions.
For emerging topics of interest like this—a potential resurgence of polio—our immediate queries to quickly respond tend to rely heavily on discharge diagnosis codes, like ICD-10-CM "A80 Acute poliomyelitis." But simply searching for this code may raise unnecessary alarms and red flags.
A search of A80 codes across NSSP data yields a weekly average of 26 visits over the last 90 days.
So, in just 90 days, our system shows 360 visits with diagnosed ACUTE POLIO.
In fact, weekly visit counts with this code persist in our data all the way back to the ICD-9-CM to ICD-10-CM transition in 2015.
This is an extreme example of why we should not be too quick to react to red flags but should investigate further.
Looking at these visits, we see them largely concentrated in the older age groups and in specific U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) regions (although all age groups and HHS regions have at least a few).
Using text analysis tools, we see a high frequency of A80.9 Acute poliomyelitis, unspecified, coupled with terms like QUADRIPLEGIA, MUSCLE, REDUCED, MOBILITY, WEAKNESS, and FALL.
In this scenario, without further analysis, public health practitioners could be quick to believe that active polio is being diagnosed, when a history of childhood polio is being noted.
View Larger Weekly counts of all NSSP data for visits with A80 ICD-10-CM codes.
Why this matters Analysts who know their community demographics and their surveillance data are in the best position to identify trends, spot anomalies, and form conclusions well-grounded in science.
Raw syndromic surveillance data—gathered directly from the source—are messy and require thoughtful use.
A simplistic analysis can be misleading.
Data need to be analyzed, checked, and rechecked.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All MARCH 21, 2025 Implementation Guides PURPOSE CDC has developed and published syndromic surveillance messaging guides.
These guides support Promoting Interoperability programs that employ health information technology to improve the quality and value of American health care.
Standards To access and use the implementation guides for the syndromic surveillance Promoting Interoperability objectives, please see the tables below under current and previous releases.
Current standard Document Transaction Standard(s) Used Status PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department, Urgent Care, Inpatient and Ambulatory Care Settings, Release 2.0 (April, 2015) Erratum to the PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department, Urgent Care, Inpatient and Ambulatory Care Settings ADT Messages A01, A03, A04 and A08 Optional ORU^R01 Message Notation for Laboratory Data HL7 Version 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) Release 2.0 April 21, 2015 PHIN 2.0 Implementation Guide Meaningful Use Clarifying Document (PDF available on NIST Website) Sending data from emergency department, urgent, ambulatory care and inpatient settings to public health authorities Certifying 2015 Edition Meaningful Use electronic health record technology HL7® 2.5.1 HL7®v2 Published Trial standard Document Transaction Standard(s) Used Status HL7® Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Syndromic Surveillance, Release 1 – US Realm, Standard for Trial Use, July 2019 Syndromic surveillance is a process that regularly and systematically uses health and health-related data in near “real-time” to make information available on the health of a community.
This information includes statistics on disease trends and community health-seeking behaviors that support essential public health surveillance functions in governmental public health authorities (PHAs).
HL7® Version 2.5.1, ICD-10-CM, SNOMED-CT, LOINC, Rx Norm, UCUM, CPT4 Available for early adoption Previous standards Document Transaction Standard(s) Used Status PHIN Messaging Guide For Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department, Urgent Care And Inpatient Settings, Release 1.9 (April 2013) Biosurveillance (Currently not referenced for EHR certification) HL7® 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) This guide is suggested for future Meaningful Use Stages.
Published PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department and Urgent Care Data, Release 1.1 (August 2012),Testing Clarification Release 1.2 (February 2013) Biosurveillance (ONC Certification Criteria for EHR Technology, 2014 Ed.) HL7® 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) Meaningful Use Stage 2 (October 2013 start) Published PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department and Urgent Care Data, Release 1.1 (August 2012) Biosurveillance (ONC Certification Criteria for EHR Technology, 2014 Ed.) HL7® 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) Meaningful Use Stage 2 (October 2013 start) Published PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department and Urgent Care Data, Addendum Release 1.1 (August 2012) Biosurveillance (ONC Certification Criteria for EHR Technology, 2014 Ed.) HL7® 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) Meaningful Use Stage 2 (October 2013 start) Published PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance: Emergency Department and Urgent Care Data, Release 1 (October 2011) Biosurveillance (Suggested for use with EHR Certification 2011 ed.) HL7® 2.5.1 (Version 2.3.1 Compatible) Published Resources KEEP READING: Technical Resources HL7® HL7® Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Syndromic Surveillance, Release 1 - US Realm Standard for Trial Use, July 2019 —Support the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information.
Note: This guidance can be found on the Health Level Seven International website 
Access requires setting up a user account.
NIST National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) HL7 V2.5.1 Syndromic Surveillance Validation Tool – Meaningful Use 2014 Edition —Before onboarding, HL7® messages must pass this compliance check.
NIST Syndromic Surveillance Test Suite —Data validation tools.
PHIN Public Health Information Network (PHIN) Vocabulary Access and Distribution System (VADS)—Standards-based vocabulary (within PHIN systems) fosters the use and exchange of consistent information among public health partners.
ON THIS PAGE Standards Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 18, 2024 Onboarding FAQs PURPOSE Onboarding is a collaborative process, and we are here to help.
Our goal is to support high-quality live data feeds to the BioSense Platform.
This process is vital to helping public health professionals detect, monitor, and investigate health threats.
Site administrators and others are encouraged to use these FAQs as a guide to support a successful onboarding process.
Guidance Please find basic information—including guides, manuals, job aids and helpful articles—on the Onboarding Resources page.
FAQs What is the timeline for onboarding a new site?
A new site onboarding window typically lasts 10 to 12 weeks, depending on how many sites participate.
The length of site preparation before each new site onboarding window will vary.
How long does it take for a new facility to get approved for production?
The speed of onboarding varies depending on facility readiness and issues identified during onboarding.
For new-facility onboarding, once a facility has established data flow to the staging environment, the site administrator may request a review of the data by submitting a ticket to the NSSP Service Desk or by changing the facility’s MFT status to Active.
If no data quality issues are identified, a facility can be approved within one to two business days.
If data quality issues are identified or NSSP has other priorities, approval for production can take longer.
See the Onboarding Guide or New Facility “STEPS TO VALIDATE” Job Aid for details on when to request a facility for production review.
What is the timeline for onboarding new facilities?
The timeline will vary depending on facility and vendor readiness, facility connection to the data feed, and identification of issues throughout onboarding.
Once a new facility establishes a data flow to the onboarding environment, the site administrator may request a review of the data by submitting a ticket to the NSSP Service Desk or by changing the Facility Status on the Master Facility Table (MFT) to Active: If no data quality issues are identified, the facility will usually be approved within one to two business days.
If data quality issues are identified or facility prioritization is a concern, approval for production can take about two weeks.
On average, two weeks are needed for the NSSP onboarding team to communicate the issue to the site administrator and for the site administrator either to resolve or respond to each problem.
Should I add multiple lines for facilities with multiple IDs?
Some facilities may use unique identifiers (IDs) for the same building.
How you enter this information determines how ESSENCE will view these data.
A batch template can contain only one facility ID, but additional associated IDs may be added manually: To create multiple facilities, enter separate lines for each identifier during the batch upload.
To create (and view as) a single facility, enter one identifier during the batch upload.
Later, add additional identifiers either as an associated facility or as an additional.
Both methods will map messages from unique identifiers to the main facility.
An ideally formed HL7® message1 will have the main facility ID in the MSH-4.2 and the individual departments in the EVN-7.2.
In the MFT, are the Primary FacilityID_UUID and Facility National Provider Identifier (NPI) sometimes the same number?
Yes, these can be the same number if that is what the site chooses to use as its FacilityID_UUID.
What does the NSSP onboarding team look for when they validate data quality?
NSSP's approach to validating data quality provides two levels of minimum data quality requirements: Priority 1 Data Elements—Minimum Required Data Elements to onboard to NSSP BioSense Platform (compliance with PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance).
Priority 2 Data Elements—Minimum Required Data Elements to comply with the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) certification.
ONC supports adoption of health information technology and promotes nationwide health information exchange to improve healthcare.
See HealthIT.gov at  .
NSSP encourages sites and facilities to achieve 100% compliance with data completeness, timeliness, and validation.
Sometimes, however, considerable effort is needed to develop production-ready HL7® messages that fully comply with the messaging guide.
Changes to messages can require considerable time and planning to implement correctly.
Some nice-to-have changes might not be identified until late in the onboarding process, becoming prime candidates for integration into vendor software upgrades.
Issues can also result from outdated documentation, vendor mergers, and user errors.
Given these potential obstacles, having two levels of minimum data quality requirements is a practical solution.
What are onboarding guides and job aids intended to do, and who are they designed for?
The guides and job aids are designed to help site administrators onboard new facilities to the BioSense Platform and set up initial feeds in a manner consistent with NSSP guidelines.
Facility managers, administrators, technical staff, vendors, health information exchanges, and individual hospitals or medical facilities that transmit syndromic data will also find the information useful.
(For onboarding information specific to your local public health jurisdiction, please work directly with your site administrator.) Can sites submit personally identifiable information?
Please avoid—or limit—sending personally identifiable information (PII) to the BioSense Platform.
NSSP can scrub PII from specific fields listed in the New Facility Onboarding Guide for the BioSense Platform.
PII sent in other fields (those not listed) cannot be scrubbed and should not be sent.
NSSP issues weekly PII reports to alert sites of problems and works with site administrators to identify solutions.
Why aren't onboarding facilities displayed on the Data Quality dashboard?
The facilities in the Data Quality Dashboard are updated once a week.
If more than a week has passed and you don't see the facility but are certain data have been received, please submit an NSSP Service Desk ticket .
How should I respond to a status of Pending Site Review?
The onboarding team has asked that site administrators check their MFT for facilities with a Review Status of Pending Site Review.
The reason for this review is that a site administrator or MFT Edit User might have requested that the facility status be updated to Active and, following a review, the NSSP onboarding team declined the activation request.
The only way to clear this status is for a site administrator or MFT Edit User to click Cancel Requested Changes to revert the facility entry to its previous status before the activation request was made.
If you're a site administrator or MFT Edit User, please review your site's MFT Review Status column for facilities with a Review Status of Pending Site Review, and then click Cancel Requested Changes.
Reaching out to NSSP Please reach out to NSSP for technical assistance or to share ideas, needs, and concerns.
Email us at nssp@cdc.gov or create an NSSP Service Desk ticket (account access required).
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 23, 2024 Phase 1: New Facility Steps to Engage A CDC job aid to support site administrators PURPOSE During the engage phase of BioSense Platform onboarding, sites will manage the list of onboarding facilities, placing highest priority on emergency departments and urgent care facilities.
This guide outlines this phase of the process.
Activities to complete before connecting This content is part of a series of online job aids related to onboarding.
These resources are meant to be used together along with New Facility Onboarding —The Complete Guide.
Download this job aid: Phase 1—New Facility Steps to Engage This guide takes site administrators through the activities that must be completed by the site and feed administrator before connecting to the BioSense Platform.
During the engage phase, sites will manage the list of onboarding facilities, placing highest priority on emergency departments and urgent care facilities.
Sometimes the site administrator will oversee feed administrator tasks.
During the engage phase, sites place the highest priority on emergency departments and urgent care facilities.
PHASE 1—NEW FACILITY STEPS TO ENGAGE SITE ADMINISTRATOR FEED ADMINISTRATOR STEP 1: Identify feed administrator (primary contact) for setting up facility connection.
STEP 1: Work with the site administrator to prepare for facility onboarding.
STEP 2: Engage with facility for onboarding.
STEP 2: Establish service-level agreements, as needed.
STEP 3: Establish service-level agreements with facilities, as needed.
Examples include Facility BOPA and DUA.
Site and facility BOPAs can be found in the Onboarding Guide.
STEP 3: Submit at least two test messages of each HL7® message type to the NIST validation tool.
At a minimum, validate the following message types and confirm successful results.
Message types: ▪ A01—Admit/Visit ▪ A03—Discharge/End Visit ▪ A04—Registration ▪ A08—Update Patient Information Message formatting details can be found in the PHIN Messaging Guide 2.0.
STEP 4: Review deadlines associated with grant, cooperative agreement, or other funding mechanism (if applicable).
STEP 4: Submit successful results to site administrator.
STEP 5: Review Planning: Site Support Model (Job Aid) to confirm support level needed during onboarding.
STEP 5: Review NIST HL7® validation results with site administrator STEP 6: Update the site Master Facility Table (MFT).
Set the status of the facility being onboarded to Onboarding.
To add a new facility, see the Master Facility Table Quick Start Guide.
STEP 7: Work with feed administrator to review NIST HL7® validation results for each facility that will be onboarded.
STEP 8: To prepare for facility connection to the BioSense Platform, ask your feed administrator if HL7® data integration tools such as Rhapsody and Mirth are available.
Both have SFTP capabilities and can be configured for data uploads.
Resources Master Facility Table Quick Start Guide PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance Choose a Site Support Model Prior to Onboarding NIST Data Validation Tools SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 23, 2024 Syndromic Data Element Prioritization A CDC job aid to support site administrators PURPOSE Site administrators need to understand priority levels, which help guarantee data quality in the production environment.
Priority levels are used when onboarding new facilities or re-onboarding existing facilities.
Priority levels support data quality Download this job aid: Syndromic Data Element Prioritization NSSP, in collaboration with the syndromic surveillance community, has assigned priority levels to data elements within syndromic HL7® messages.
Data elements are described in detail in the PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance 2.0.
Processing details for each element can be found in the NSSP Data Dictionary.
Priority levels help guarantee data quality in the production environment and are used when onboarding new facilities or re-onboarding existing facilities.
Priority levels are included in the NSSP New Site Onboarding and New Facility Onboarding guides.
Priority 1 data elements Priority 1 data elements are the minimum required to perform surveillance activities.
Shown below are the required fields for maintaining a minimum level of completeness and validity so that a facility can achieve and maintain production status.
Priority 1 Data Elements PRIORITY 1 DATA ELEMENTS Processed Column Priority Required HL7® Admit_Date_Time 1 R PV1-44.1 Admit_Reason_Description 1 RE PV2-3.2, PV2-3 C_Chief_Complaint 1 CRE OBX or PV2-3 C_Death 1 CRE PID.30.1 C_Facility_ID 1 CR EVN-7.2, MSH-4.2 or MSH-4.1 C_FacType_Patient_Class 1 CR OBX-2,3,5 C_Patient_Age 1 CRE OBX-2,3,5 C_Patient_Age_Years 1 CRE OBX-2,3,5 C_Patient_Class 1 CR PV1.2.1 or calculate C_Unique_Patient_ID 1 CR PID.3.1 Chief_Complaint_Text 1 RE OBX-2,3,5 Diagnosis_Code 1 RE DG1-3.1, DG1-3.4 Diagnosis_Description 1 RE DG1-3.2, DG1-3.5 Facility_Type_Code 1 R OBX-2,3,5 Patient_Class_Code 1 R PV1.2.1 Patient_Zip 1 RE PID.11.5 Processing_ID 1 R MSH.11.1 Sending_Facility_ID 1 R MSH-4.2 or MSH-4.1 Treating_Facility_ID 1 R EVN.7.2 Trigger_Event 1 R MSH.9.2 Visit_ID 1 R PV1.19.1 Priority 2 data elements Priority 2 data elements are also useful for surveillance activities and may be required by sites before a facility can move to production.
NSSP requires these data elements meet minimum standards of completeness and validity within 12 months of a facility achieving production status.
Priority 2 Data Elements PRIORITY 2 DATA ELEMENTS Processed Column Priority Required HL7® First_Patient_ID 2 R PID-3.1 Medical_Record_Number 2 R PID-3.1 Sending_Facility_ID_Source 2 R MSH-4.1 Message_Date_Time 2 R MSH.7.1 Recorded_Date_Time 2 R EVN.2.1 Discharge_Disposition 2 RE PV1.36.1 Discharge_Date_Time 2 RE PV1.45.1 Administrative_Sex 2 RE PID.8.1 Age_Reported 2 RE OBX.5.1 Age_Units_Reported 2 RE OBX.6.2 C_Patient_Age_Units 2 C OBX.6.2 Race_Code 2 RE PID-10.1 Ethnicity_Code 2 RE PID-22.1 Ethnicity_Description 2 RE PID-22.2 Patient_City 2 RE PID.11.3 Patient_State 2 RE PID.11.4 C_Patient_County 2 CRE PID-11.9 Patient_Country 2 RE PID.11.6 Admit_Reason_Code 2 RE PV2-3.1, PV2-3 Chief_Complaint_Code 2 RE OBX-2,3,5 Diagnosis_Type 2 RE DG1.6.1 Version_ID 2 R MSH.12.1 Priority 3 data elements Priority 3 data elements are mostly optional data elements—still useful for surveillance activities, but not required by most sites.
Currently, the NSSP does not require that these fields be populated in incoming data.
Priority 3 Data Elements PRIORITY 3 DATA ELEMENTS Processed Column Priority Required HL7® First_Patient_ID_Type_Code 3 O PID-3.5 First_Patient_ID_Assigning_Authority 3 O PID-3.4 First_Patient_ID_Assigning_Facility 3 O PID-3.6 Medical_Record_Number_Assigning_Authority 3 O PID.3.1 Medical_Record_Number_Assigning_Facility 3 O PID.3.1 Visit_ID_Assigning_Authority 3 O PV1.19.4 Visit_ID_Assigning_Facility 3 O PV1.19.6 Patient_Account_Number 3 O PID.18.1 Alternate_Visit_ID 3 O PV1.50 Facility_Type_Description 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Receiving_Facility 3 O MSH.6.1 Diagnosis_Date_Time 3 O DG1.5.1 Procedure_Date_Time 3 O PR1.5 Observation_Date_Time 3 O OBX.14.1 Onset_Date 3 O OBX.5.1 Patient_Death_Indicator 3 O PID.30.1 Death_Date_Time 3 O PID.29.1 Admission_Type 3 O PV1.4 Admit_Source 3 O PV1.14 Ambulatory_Status 3 O PV1.15 Hospital_Service 3 O PV1.10 Insurance_Company_ID 3 O IN1-3 Insurance_Coverage 3 O IN1-15 Previous_Hospital_Unit 3 O PV1-6 Provider_Type_Code 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Provider_Type_Combo 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Provider_Type_Description 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Unique_Physician_Identifier 3 O PV1-7.1 Unique_Physician_Identifier_Assigning_Authority 3 O PV1-7.9 Hospital_Unit_Code 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Hospital_Unit_Description 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Age_Calculated 3 RE OBX.5.1 Age_Units_Calculated 3 RE OBX.6.2 Birth_Date_Time 3 O PID.7.1 Race_Description 3 O PID-10.2 Triage_Notes 3 O OBX.5.1 Diagnosis_Priority 3 O DG1.15 Event_Type_Code 3 O EVN.1.1 Procedure_Code 3 O PR1.3.3 Procedure_Description 3 O PR1.3.2 Clinical_Impression 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Initial_Acuity_Code 3 O OBX.5.1 Initial_Acuity_Description 3 O OBX.5.1 Initial_Evaluation_Note 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Medication_Code 3 O OBX.5.1 Medication_Description 3 O OBX.5.1 Medication_List 3 O OBX.5.1 Problem_List_Code 3 O OBX.5.1 Problem_List_Description 3 O OBX.5.1 Travel_History 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Initial_Temp 3 O OBX-5 Initial_Temp_Units 3 O OBX-6 Initial_Pulse_Oximetry 3 O OBX-5 Initial_Pulse_Oximetry_Units 3 O OBX-6 Diastolic_Blood_Pressure 3 O OBX-5 Diastolic_Blood_Pressure_Units 3 O OBX-6 Str_Diastolic_Blood_Pressure 3 O OBX-5 Systolic_Diastolic_Blood_Pressure 3 O OBX-5 Systolic_Diastolic_Blood_Pressure_Units 3 O OBX-6 Systolic_Blood_Pressure 3 O OBX-5 Systolic_Blood_Pressure_Units 3 O OBX-6 Pregnancy_Status_Code 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Pregnancy_Status_Description 3 O OBX-2,3,5 Smoking_Status_Code 3 RE OBX-2,3,5 Smoking_Status_Description 3 RE OBX-2,3,5 Body_Mass_Index 3 O OBX-5 Height 3 RE OBX-5 Height_Units 3 RE OBX-6 Weight 3 RE OBX-5 Weight_Units 3 RE OBX-6 Assigned_Patient_Location 3 O PV1-3 Time_Zone 3 O MSH-7.1 Resources PHIN Messaging Guide for Syndromic Surveillance NSSP Data Dictionary New Site Onboarding — The Complete Guide New Facility Onboarding — The Complete Guide SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All MARCH 22, 2024 The Case of the Missing Chief Complaint PURPOSE Epidemiologists need to detect the reason for events that threaten public health—even when reporting completeness is poor.
This whodunit explains how to search data for clues.
The event State epidemiologist Steven looked up from his daily “Lights On” report to see an email notifying him that an automated syndromic alert for “Exposure” had been tripped.
This alert was from a large regional hospital, and notes from the hospital’s emergency department visits described chemicals, fumes, and the site of a large construction project.
Later, news sources revealed that a large road crew had been overcome by fumes earlier that morning.
Was Steven capturing all the visits within this large regional hospital?
Were other smaller hospitals close to the event receiving patients?
Details Steven noticed The large hospital’s Chief Complaint completeness was poor the day of the event.
This hospital often completed some Chief Complaint fields via the Chief_Complaint_Text and others via the Admit_Reason_Description if the Chief_Complaint_Text was blank.
But today, apparently due to the influx of new patients, the facility staff had stopped completing the Admit_Reason_Description field.
The smaller hospital, located near the exposure event, historically showed thorough Chief Complaint completeness.
Steven was faced with the unexpected task of depending on the smaller hospital’s data.
Steven realized most of its Chief Complaints were populated with “Ambulance called ahead.” He would have to manually search Admit_Reason_Description for clues to get a true picture.
Chief Complaint: Identifying the origin During a patient visit, the medical provider captures the reason for the patient seeking medical care in an electronic health record that is sent to CDC's National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP).
Messages are written to the Processed table and stored as distinct fields.
Each full HL7® segment is also captured in Admit_Reason_Segment and Chief_Complaint_Segment.
For each message received, a new calculated field called C_Chief_Complaint is created when the message is written in the Processed table.
This calculated field is first populated with the Chief_Complaint_Text, if available in that message, or the Admit_Reason_Description, if Chief_Complaint_Text is blank.
If neither the Chief_Complaint_Text nor Admit_Reason_Description is available, then C_Chief_Complaint is left blank.
C_Chief_Complaint has a companion field, C_Chief_Complaint_Source, that records which of the two fields was the source of C_Chief_Complaint for that message.
If you see in a visit-level completeness report that C_Chief_Complaint is 77% complete, you may also see Admit_Reason_Description of 55% and Chief_Complaint_Text of 66%.
This makes sense because some visits can have Admit Reason and no Chief Complaint, whereas others may have Chief Complaint and no Admit Reason.
During ESSENCE ingestion—as all messages are collapsed into a single record per visit—ESSENCE creates a new field called ChiefComplaintOrig and populates it with the first non-null C_Chief_Complaint received for that visit.
(The current list of non-informative chief complaints is available in the NSSP Data Dictionary.) ESSENCE will also create another field upon ingestion called CCInformative, which is an indicator value to show if ChiefComplaintOrig is informative based on the NICC terms.
Where completeness can go wrong When Chief Complaint has low completeness by visit, you can review several areas to look for the root cause.
Here are some suggestions: Confirm with the data sender that Admit_Reason_Description or Chief_Complaint_Text are being populated.
Reviewing with the data sender that the field(s) are being populated as expected is a good way to start.
If the volume of visits with CCInformative is low, confirm that all C_Chief_Complaints are not Non-Informative by comparing with the current list located in the NSSP Data Dictionary.
Confirm that the HL7® messages are formatted correctly so that they can be ingested as expected.
A properly formatted PV2 and OBX are required for the free-text fields to be ingested.
Formatting examples Let's look at these examples of good and bad HL7® message formatting.
Admit Reason PV2-3 GOOD: PV2|||^Diabetes Mellitus PV2|||O24.4^Diabetes Mellitus arising in pregnancy^I10 BAD: PV2|||Diabetes Mellitus Why it doesn't work: This text will be stored as Admit_Reason_Code instead of Admit_Reason_Description.
Only text in PV2.3.2 is recorded for Admit_Reason_Description.
PV2|||O24.4 Why it doesn't work: This text will be stored as Admit_Reason_Code.
No text has been provided for Admit_Reason_Description.
Only text in PV2.3.2 is recorded for Admit_Reason_Description.
OBX-2 should be 'TX' to capture free text in the OBX.5.1.
OBX|3|TX|8661-1^CHIEF COMPLAINT – REPORTED^LN||^^^^^^^^STOMACH ACHE THAT HAS LASTED 2 DAYS; NAUSEA AND VOMITING; MAYBE A FEVER||||||F|||201102171531 Why it doesn't work: If OBX-3 is 'TX', only OBX-5.1 will be captured for Chief_Complaint_Text.
EITHER: OBX.2 should be CWE to capture free text in the OBX.5.9, or OBX.5 should have all delimiters (^) removed so that the free text is in OBX-5.1 (This is the preferred solution, especially when the Chief Complaint is not coded.) Additional tip A good method for checking message format is to see if Admit_Reason_Segment or Chief_Complaint_Segment is populated in the processed table while Admit_Reason_Description or Chief_Complaint_Text is null.
The Resolution Once you identify the source of low C_Chief_Complaint completeness, you'll need to fix the issue.
Most often, the quickest way to do this is to contact the data sender and share examples1 from recently received data.
Be sure to include Message_Control_ID for each example message, and only include patient identifiers if sending the information securely.
Although email may be preferred for initial discussions and notification, don't hesitate to call the data sender and screen share!
We thank Senior Data Analyst Sophia Crossen (CDC) for developing this series of whodunits.
Crossen has considerable experience working with state data and often guides public health staff in troubleshooting and resolving technical issues.
HL7®, and FHIR® are the registered trademarks of Health Level Seven International and their use of these trademarks does not constitute an endorsement by HL7.
ON THIS PAGE The event Chief Complaint: Identifying the origin Where completeness can go wrong The Resolution SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All MARCH 22, 2024 How Data Quality Filters Work PURPOSE Data quality (DQ) filters help to control for variation in data availability and information quality when grouping visits into surveillance categories.
These tips will help NSSP users understand how filtering works so they can exercise more control during analyses.
Control for which facilities to include As participation in the National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) expands and more health care facilities are onboarded, the availability of data will naturally increase.
Over time, the abundance of new data can affect interpretation of surveillance trends.
That's where data quality filters can help.
Data filtering can control for which facilities are included in the analyses.
DQ filters help users control for variation in data availability and information quality when grouping visits into surveillance categories at the facility level over a defined period.
By using DQ filters in a query, users can ensure that the analysis only pulls data from facilities that consistently reported visits and met cut-points for visits containing informative chief complaint (CC) and discharge diagnosis (DD).
The information that follows will help NSSP users understand how filtering works so they can exercise more control during analyses.
If we compare data from 2017 (the earliest year data quality filters are available) through 2022, emergency department (ED) coverage has soared: 5,678 facilities reported at least one visit in 2022—a 72.6% increase in facilities compared to 2017.
Looking across all visit types (i.e., emergency departments, urgent cares), patient visits have increased 56.4% (8.4% increase in the percent of visits with an informative chief complaint field; 39.1% increase in the percent of visits with an informative discharge diagnosis field).
Among ED visits only (HasBeenE=Yes), patient visits have increased 35.7% (3.2% increase in the percent of visits with an informative chief complaint field; 39.8% increase in the percent of visits with an informative discharge diagnosis field).
Among non-ED visits (HasBeenE=No), patient visits have increased 111.7% (40.0% increase in the percent of visits with an informative chief complaint field; 37.2% increase in the percent of visits with an informative discharge diagnosis field).
Increases in the number of facilities that report data lead to increases in patient visit volumes captured by the platform, increases in the proportion of patient visits with an informative CC field, and increases in the proportion of patient visits with an informative DD field.
As a result, more high-quality data are available to analyze in 2022 compared with 2017.
Table 1 shows the yearly visit volume and the count and percent of visits with an informative CC or DD code.
Note the increases in available data across years.
Such differences can affect how users interpret routine surveillance results when they're evaluating longitudinal trends or conducting year-over-year case-finding activities.
View Larger Table 1.
Annual visit volume and percent of visits with chief complaint informative (CCI) = Yes or discharge diagnosis informative (DDI) = Y...
It's helpful to know which data are included in each calculation (see Table 2): CoV and CoV(HasBeenE) are calculated by calendar year.
Each filter begins on January 1 of the initial year and goes through the current year.
CCI Avg Weekly and DDI Avg Weekly filters are calculated by Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) calendar year.
These filters begin on the first day of the first MMWR week of the start year and go through the current year.
View Larger Table 2.
Filter start dates by filter type and duration.
CoV includes emergency and non-emergency visits (HasBeenE=0 and HasBeenE=1), and CoV(HasBeenE) only includes ED visits (HasBeenE=1) in the calculation.
CoV is calculated by dividing the standard deviation of weekly visits by the mean weekly visit volume multiplied by 100 (see calculation below).
Lower values of CoV correspond to less variation in the total visit volume, whereas higher values correspond to more variation.
Explanations for high CoV values include a facility onboarding or a data feed drop during the period.
NSSP recommends CoV values less than or equal to 45 for long-term comparison analyses.
Both CoV filters have a 7-day lag in data and will return a NULL value for current year calculations until after January 7th.
Data are grouped by MMWR week, and partial weeks are included in the calculation if the calendar year does not begin the first day of an MMWR week or if the current MMWR week is not complete.
View Larger Lower values of CoV correspond to less variation in the total visit volume, whereas higher values correspond to more variation.
Filter 3: Average Weekly Chief Complaint Informative (CCI Avg Weekly Percent) and Filter 4: Average Weekly Discharge Diagnosis Informative (DDI Avg Weekly Percent) These filters control for the availability and quality of data in the CC and DD fields.
Both filters are calculated as the weekly average percent of all visits (ED and non-ED) with an informative CC or DD field, respectively (see calculations below).
Both filters range from 0% to 100%; lower values correspond to fewer visits with informative fields, and higher values correspond to more visits with informative CC or DD fields.
NSSP recommends a DDI Avg Weekly Percent greater than or equal to 70% and does not currently have a recommendation for a CCI Avg Weekly Percent threshold.
Both DQ filters have a two MMWR week data lag and will return a NULL value for current year calculations until after MMWR Week 2.
Only full MMWR weeks of data are included in these calculations.
View Larger Lower values correspond to fewer visits with informative fields, and higher values correspond to more visits with informative CC or DD field...
Show More Users do not need to use both filters in a query.
If the surveillance category of interest contains both chief complaint terms and discharge diagnosis terms (e.g., CCDD syndromes), both filters are recommended; if the surveillance category is based on discharge diagnosis terms only (e.g., ICD-10 diagnoses, CCSR categories), only the DDI Avg Weekly Percent is necessary.
How to Access the Data Quality Filters There are three ways to access DQ filters: the ESSENCE query portal, the Facility-level Data Quality Filter Table, and the Rnssp Template.
Brief descriptions of each follow.
ESSENCE Query Portal Users can access DQ filters for the Patient Location and Facility Location datasets via the ESSENCE and ESSENCE 2 query portals.
Users may select the filter duration of interest and the filter direction (less than, less than or equal to, equal to, greater than or equal to, and greater than).
The results can differ even when applying the same DQ filter thresholds to the Patient Location and Facility Location.
Adding DQ filters to a Facility Location query will return all visits from facilities in the selected geographic region that meet the DQ thresholds.
Adding DQ filters to a Patient Location query will return visits from patients in the selected geographic region who attended facilities that meet the DQ threshold for visits.
View Larger Figure 1: Data quality filters available in the ESSENCE query portal.
View Larger Additional data quality filters available in the ESSENCE query portal.
Facility-level data quality filter table Facility-level filters are available in the COV Weekly Average DQ table, located under the Data Quality tab in ESSENCE and ESSENCE 2 (Figure 2).
Users can select their site and the facilities they are interested in, and the table will return the CoV, CoV(HasBeenE), CCI Avg Weekly Percent, DDI Avg Weekly Percent, and last date the calculation was updated for each facility (Figure 3).
This table can be downloaded and saved to a .csv file.
View Larger Figure 2: The data quality filter table can be accessed through the COV Weekly Average DQ Data selection (the last menu selection).
View Larger Figure 3: COV Weekly Average DQ Data table selections.
Users can select all facilities for their site on the left, or individual facilities ...
Show More Rnssp template The inclusion of facilities and visits for combinations of CoV(HasBeenE) and DDI Avg Weekly Percent can be explored with the Data Quality Matrix template in R.
Access this template via the Rnssp package .
Additional information specific to the Data Quality Filter Matrix Template is available in the Rnssp Templates Documentation .
What are CCI Avg Weekly Percent and DDI Avg Weekly Percent?
These terms are measures of how informative the chief complaint (CC) and discharge diagnosis (DD) fields are over time.
Non-informative text in the CC and DD fields are: '""' , 'null' , 'unknown' , 'unk' , 'n/a' , 'na' , 'Chief complaint not present' , 'ed visit' , 'ed' , 'er' , 'Advice only' , 'Other' , 'xxx' , 'Evaluation' , 'Follow up' , 'medical' , 'illness' , 'General' , 'General symptom' , 'EMS' , 'AMR' , 'Medic' , 'Ambulance' , 'EMS/Arrived by' , 'EMS/Ambulance' , ';' , ';;' , 'Triage' , 'Triage peds' , 'Triage-' , 'Triage peds-' , 'See chief complaint quote' , 'See CC quote' , 'Sick' , 'Injury' , 'ill' , 'Eval' , 'squad' , 'Referral' , 'Code 1' , 'Code 3'.
Read NICC Creates Pathway to Update Chief Complaint for a description of a non-informative chief complaint (NICC) and its use.
ON THIS PAGE Control for which facilities to include Calculations How to Access the Data Quality Filters Facility-level data quality filter table Rnssp template What are CCI Avg Weekly Percent and DDI Avg Weekly Percent?
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All JANUARY 15, 2025 NICC Creates Pathway to Update Chief Complaint PURPOSE We are continually updating our processes.
The addition of NICCs, which stands for non-informative chief complaints, creates a pathway for ensuring that our systems don't retain non-helpful information when better clinical data become available.
Community of Practice Technical Committee tackles a challenging issue The NSSP Data Dictionary includes the term NICC, which is such a useful part of the NSSP vocabulary that it deserves thorough explanation.
NICC stands for non-informative chief complaint.
For background, sometimes NSSP receives chief complaint terms that are not informative.
By "not informative," we mean that although the chief complaint may have a non-null value, the value itself may add negligible, if any, value to syndromic surveillance.
For example, a chief complaint value of "unknown" is not informative.
Early versions of NSSP–ESSENCE would ingest and store the first non-null chief complaint value sent for a visit, regardless of the value of the chief complaint itself.
For example, if the first non-null chief complaint was "unknown," then ESSENCE's chiefcomplaintorig and chiefcomplaintparsed columns would retain the value "unknown" despite receiving additional or more informative chief complaint data for that visit.
Further, using the same example, the DD portion of CCDD would also have "unknown." This was problematic because there may have been more informative chief complaint data reported for a visit but not reflected in ESSENCE chief complaint fields (including CCDD) and, thus, not considered in some CCDD categories.
The NSSP Community of Practice Technical Committee compiled a list of commonly used NICC terms.
(See NICC Terminology table below.) The Technical Committee recommended that NSSP consider alternate processing rules when ingesting chief complaint data into ESSENCE.
These processing rules would account for the possibility of a NICC term being reported as the first non-null chief complaint and the subsequent informative chief complaints not being leveraged.
On the basis of this recommendation, the NSSP–ESSENCE ingestion process was modified.
The NSSP ingestion process continues to use the first non-null chief complaint during ingestion, even if the first non-null is a NICC.
However, the current processing will "overwrite" a NICC chief complaint when a subsequent informative chief complaint is reported (in other words, a chief complaint value that is not on the NICC list).
Did you know?
The history field for chief complaint (chiefcomplaintupdates) will store all chief complaints reported, including those terms considered non-informative, or "NICC." So, you will be able to see those visits that did have a NICC at some point in the history of all chief complaints reported.
Let's take an example of several messages and records associated with the same visit (ESSENCEID).
Notice the ChiefComplaintOrig values reflected in the data reported in the messages.
The first non-null is a NICC value: "Chief Complaint Not Present." However, other messages following this first message contain chief complaint data that are more informative.
How does ESSENCE process these data now?
NICC Terminology NICC ID NICC Term NICC ID NICC Term NICC ID NICC Term NICC ID NICC Term 1 “” 13 other 25 Ambulance 37 backfill 2 null 14 xxx 26 EMS/Arrive by 38 back fill 3 unk 15 Evaluation 27 EMS/Ambulance 39 Sick 4 unknown 16 Follow up 28 ; 40 Injury 5 n/a 17 medic 29 ;; 41 ill 6 na 18 illness 30 Triage 42 Eval 7 Chief complaint not present 19 General 31 Triage peds 43 squad 8 ed 20 General Symptom 32 Triage- 44 referral 9 ed visit 21 EMS 33 Triage peds- 45 Code 1 10 er 22 AMR 34 See chief complaint quote 46 Code 3 11 Advice only 23 medical 35 See CC quote 12 follow-up 24 Check 36 ;null; Did you know?
Non-informative Discharge Diagnoses, or NIDDs, can also show up in data.
A NIDD contains negligible value to syndromic surveillance.
The list of NIDDs and NICCs are the same.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All JULY 8, 2024 PHIN Guides AT A GLANCE The guides presented here provide format and content specifications for public health information exchange.
Their use supports seamless interchange of information among healthcare, public health and other partners.
Guides by Topic Expand All Cancer Reporting ELR Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Notifiable Disease Case Notification Syndromic Surveillance SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone Supporting Healthy Communities VIEW ALL Health Care Providers NSSP and Health Care Providers VIEW ALL Public Health About NSSP CDC and Partner Dashboards Onboarding Resources Surveillance Updates Success Stories Communication Resources Partnerships Free-Text Coding in ESSENCE VIEW ALL View All APRIL 3, 2024 5 Simple Tips for Improving Query Performance PURPOSE Running complex or multiyear queries without adversely affecting other ESSENCE users can be challenging, even for power users.
These tips for queries can ensure better performance—to limit those times when users encounter the browser's nonstop spinning wheel.
Tips Let the query run completely before you start making changes.
Often in the process of running or testing a query, small changes need to be made, usually resulting in an attempt to cancel the query and rerun an updated one.
Unfortunately, even after you close the browser window, hit the cancel or refresh button in your browser, or cancel the Application Programming Interface (API) request, the original query will continue to run to completion in the database.
Browser actions do not cancel queries already sent to the database.
This means that multiple queries that are similar can be running at the same time on ESSENCE.
A good rule of thumb is to wait until you see data before refreshing and resubmitting—otherwise, you might encounter the browser's nonstop spinning wheel.
In other words, avoid submitting the same query multiple times.
Run one free-text query at a time.
When you're working with large datasets that span multiple years, although it might seem quick and efficient to run multiple queries in parallel, it's not.
The more requests the server receives, the more time all query requests take to run.
Instead, try running requests sequentially.
That will lead to better performance.
Always avoid running multiple free-text queries at the same time.
Use short time parameters to test free-text queries.
When fine-tuning a free-text query, a large time range is rarely necessary to get a sense of the query results.
We recommend using 3 to 6 months of data from the Chief Complaint Query Validation (CCQV) data source.
If you are analyzing a rare health event or seasonal effects, try running the same query multiple times over different 3- to 6-month periods.
Run multiyear trends of free-text or complex queries when there's less traffic.
If you want to identify the multiyear trend of a free-text query or a complex query with many filters, try running the query either early in the morning or late in the afternoon, when fewer analysts are using ESSENCE.
You may also consider turning the free-text queries that you perform routinely into Chief Complaint Discharge Diagnosis (CCDD) Categories in NSSP–ESSENCE, which should speed up performance dramatically.
Please contact us if you have a query you would like us to convert to a CCDD Category.
Use the ESSENCE API.
If you need to analyze a free-text query over multiple years using methods outside ESSENCE, break down your request into smaller chunks of time—for example, into 3- to 6-month intervals—and then combine these to form one large dataset.
In short, avoid running one multiyear free-text query using the APIs in favor of multiple queries broken up into time increments.
Reach out with questions or ideas‎ The NSSP team routinely monitors system performance and assesses system architecture to keep up with demand.
If you have questions or want to modify your workflow to keep ESSENCE running efficiently, please contact us.
We will tailor additional guidance based on your analysis needs.
You can email us at nssp@cdc.gov or create an NSSP Service Desk ticket (account required).
SOURCES PRINT SHARE National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP) To improve public health, NSSP helps gather and provide syndromic data from collaborations with state and local health departments and others.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People NHSN CDA Submission Support Portal (CSSP) Search CDC's website is being modified to comply with President Trump's Executive Orders.
NHSN CDA Submission Support Portal (CSSP) Print Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a Health Level 7 (HL7) standard that provides a framework for the encoding, formatting and semantics of electronic documents.
CDC’s National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) supports CDA import of certain healthcare-associated infection (HAI) data.
To assist programmers in creating standards for reporting via CDA import, NHSN offers an Implementation Guide and associated materials based fully on HL7-balloted CDA document specifications.
Types of data that can be reported include event reports, denominator data, and process-of-care measures.
About CDA What is Clinical Document Architecture?
Getting Started How to implement CDA for HAI reporting.
FAQs Common questions asked by CDA implementers.
Implementation Toolkits & Resources NHSN HAI Implementation Guides, IDMs and toolkits.
Data Validation & Testing Tools to validate and test your CDA data as per NHSN specifications.
Webinars & Training Videos Webinars on NHSN releases and CDA training.
Importing Data How to import your data into NHSN using CDA, CSV or Direct.
Innovation Tools Data sets and algorithmic web services.
Promoting Interoperability Overview of NHSN AUR Module reporting for the Promoting Interoperability Program.
Quick Links CDA Toolkit Release 13.0 Guide to CDA Versions DIRECT Protocol CMS Requirements VAE Synthetic Data Set Top FAQs What import/export type to select for a CDA or CSV file import?
I don’t see the option available to import my CDA files on the Import/Export screen in NHSN.
Could not find NHSN organization by OID in the CDA error report.
CDA is not accepted for event dates greater than or less than a specific year.
What are the requirements for CDA files?
I am not able to import CDAs or see any error reports in Internet Explorer.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All Didn't find the information you were looking for?
Health Topics A-Z PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All FEBRUARY 20, 2024 PHIN Public Health Directory (PHIN DIR) AT A GLANCE Directory services are one of the core infrastructure components of any enterprise information architecture.
The PHIN Public Health Directory (PHIN DIR) performs this essential service in the context of PHIN.
It is a repository of information about organizations and jurisdictions important to public health programs and provides Object Identifiers (OIDs) for use within the public health community.
PHIN OID Registry PHIN uses Object Identifiers (OIDs) as its unique identifiers for namespaces, enabling HL7-compliant messaging and precise data storage.
The PHIN OID Registry enables the viewing, searching, and creation of OIDs used within PHIN.
Contacting Us To report issues, questions, or OID issuance contact the PHIN DIR team at phintech@cdc.gov.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All PHIN Vocabulary SEPT.
24, 2025 ATTENTION PHIN VADS USERS!
CDC has scheduled a planned outage of the Public Health Information Network Vocabulary Access and Distribution System (PHIN VADS).
This planned outage will last 6 weeks, starting Monday, September 29 through Friday, November 7, 2025.
If you need a value set during the outage, please send the name of the value set, object identifier (OID), and any additional information you have to phinvs@cdc.gov (using the subject line “PHIN VADS Outage”).
The sooner you can share this information, the sooner our team can assist.
This planned outage is one step in the process of sunsetting PHIN VADS.
We are currently working towards providing a comparable solution for ensuring community members can access value sets after the PHINVADS sunset.
Details related to sunsetting PHIN VADS will be available at a later date.
AT A GLANCE PHIN Vocabulary Standards is a key component in supporting the development and deployment of standards-based public health information systems.
PHIN Vocabulary Services seeks to promote the use of standards-based vocabulary within PHIN systems and foster the use and exchange of consistent information among public health partners.
Overview The use of PHIN Vocabulary Standards ensures that vocabularies are aligned with PHIN standards and with appropriate industry and Consolidated Health Informatics Initiative (CHI) vocabulary standards.
These standards are supported by the PHIN Vocabulary Access and Distribution System (VADS) for accessing, searching, and distributing standards-based vocabularies used within PHIN to local, state and national PHIN partners.
It promotes the use of standards-based vocabulary within PHIN systems to support the exchange of consistent information among Public Health Partners.
PHIN Vocabulary Services strives to enable the consistent and accurate representation of information by encouraging and supporting the use of Vocabulary Standards to promote semantic interoperability among public health systems.
Working with Standard Development Organization (SDOs) terminology experts and other subject matter experts, PHIN Services actively participates in the development and identification of vocabularies important to the public health arena.
SDOs include Systematized Nomenclature for Medicine (SNOMED), Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC), Health Level 7 (HL7), Consolidated Health Informatics Initiative (CHI), Health Information Technology Initiative (HITSP) and American Health Information Community (AHIC).
PHIN Vocabulary Access and Distribution System (PHIN VADS) PHIN VADS is a web-based enterprise vocabulary system for accessing, searching, and distributing vocabularies used within the PHIN.
To learn more and access the PHIN VADS system, visit the PHIN VADS Resource page.
Influenza HL7 2.5 Message Mapping Guide Vocabulary Workbooks Influenza Summary Case Notification Influenza-Associated Pediatric Mortality Case Notification Influenza Individual Case Notification Please visit the Data Interchange Standards website for more information.
CDC Developed Code Systems Following are code systems that have been developed internally within the CDC: Race & Ethnicity Code System – CDCREC 1.0 – Code System created: 03/31/2000 Race & Ethnicity Code System – CDCREC 1.2 – Content last updated: 07/08/2021 Race & Ethnicity Code System – CDCREC 1.3 – Content last updated: 05/12/2025 Race & Ethnicity Code System Background & Purpose – CDCREC v1.0 CDCREC 1.3 Background Paper – Content last updated: 11/21/2024 CDCREC 1.3 Background and Purpose – Content last updated: 11/21/2024 Health Care Service Locations – Content last updated: 12/21/2017 Vaccines Administered (HL7 Standard Code Set CVX) – Code system last updated: 6/12/2024 Vaccine Manufacturers (HL7 Standard Code Set MVX) – Code system last updated: 11/1/2023 SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Standards and Interoperability Enterprise Services AT A GLANCE Development of interoperable public health data standards provides a platform for exchange of information across all programs; it creates opportunity for improvement of national health through the meaningful use of health information technology (IT).
This process includes assessing existing standards and sharing a knowledgebase with CDC internal and external partners.
Also, by assessing and gathering standards, the Division of Health Informatics and Surveillance (DHIS) Standards and Interoperability Enterprise Services fulfills requirements of the Public Law 104-113, National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 (NTTAA) on use of and participation of federal agencies in the development of voluntary consensus standards (VCS).
Overview As defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Circular A-119, Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities (1998), the term standard "includes all of the following: (1) Common and repeated use of rules, conditions, guidelines or characteristics for products or related processes and production methods, and related management systems practices.
(2) The definition of terms; classification of components; delineation of procedures; specification of dimensions, materials, performance, designs, or operations; measurement of quality and quantity in describing materials, processes, products, systems, services, or practices; test methods and sampling procedures; or descriptions of fit and measurements of size or strength."1 Public health standards and interoperability tasks are based on existing federal law and regulations that pertain to the principles of federal engagement in standardization activities.
The most critical reference sources to these federal laws and regulations are available at the Data Interchange Standards website, Law and Regulations tab.
Another overarching category of federal law, regulations, and standards for public health pertains to data privacy and security, including Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Promoting Interoperability, and other regulations.
They are available at the Data Interchange Standards website, Privacy and Security tab.
CDC health IT standards and interoperability activities are a component of the CDC-wide standardization activities that are published annually by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) annual NTTAA reports .
The Data Interchange Standards web page provides standardization reference sources that are adopted by the Public Health Information Network (PHIN) for specific public health content areas, such as surveillance (e.g., public health reporting, immunization, healthcare-associated infection), vital records, and PHIN Communication and Alerting.
Also, it provides reference sources to standardization law and policies and HIPAA Privacy and Security regulations.
The PHIN Vocabulary and Access Distribution System (PHIN VADS) is a critical component of the CDC Standards and Interoperability Services that develop, collect, and gather value sets that are used in public health as well as in clinical care.
As directed by OMB, Circular A-119, Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities (1998) , CDC implements conformity assessment tasks and activities that are consistent with the 15 CFR Part 287 Guidance on Federal Conformity Assessment Activities (NIST, 2000) and the CDC role and mission.
More information on federal conformity assessment activities may be found at the PHIN Conformity Assessment page.
As guided by Public Law 104-113, National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 (NTTAA ), CDC actively participates in development and implementation of voluntary consensus standards .
CDC participates in development of standards for electronic data exchange by working with such national and international organizations as Health Level Seven International (HL7) ; International Organization for Standardization (ISO) ; Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) ; International Health Terminology Standards Development Organization (IHTSDO) ; Regenstrief Institute ; The Society for Standards Professionals (SES) ; and World Health Organization (WHO).
For more details on CDC participation in development and implementation of VCS or obtaining a free copy of HL7®standards (for CDC staff only) contact phintech@cdc.gov.
1 Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Circular A-119, Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities (February 10, 1998), Revised.
At:  SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All JULY 8, 2024 Data Interchange Standards AT A GLANCE Data interchange standards facilitate interoperability and consistency across diverse systems, enabling efficient data exchange and improving public health outcomes.
By outlining best practices and protocols, these standards are key in promoting effective data sharing and collaboration among public health organizations.
Standards by Topic Expand All Laws and Regulations Privacy and Security Public Health Conformity Assessment Surveillance Vital Records ON THIS PAGE Standards by Topic SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
PHIN Tools and Resources EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH Public Health About PHIN Tools and Resources PHIN VADS PHINMS PHIN Guides Standards and Interoperability PHIN Vocabulary PHIN Public Health Directory VIEW ALL View All Public Health FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Conformity Assessment AT A GLANCE The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Guidance on Federal Conformity Assessment Activities, 15 CFR Part 287 (2020), and  define conformity assessment as checking that products, materials, services, systems, or people measure up to the specifications of a relevant standard.
public health mission), and systems (e.g., assessing essential capabilities of public health labs, testing surveillance electronic system, certifying EHR).
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "National Conformity Assessment Principles for the United States" (2007**) includes the following categories of conformance assessment activities that may be used by public health: sampling and testing, inspection, supplier's declaration of conformity, certification, management system assessment and registration, accreditation of the competence of those activities by a third party, and recognition (usually by a government agency) of an accreditation program's capability.
Test methods for health information technology developed by NIST are described here.
One tool that CDC offers for electronic message validation is the Message Evaluation and Testing Service (METS).
This tool ensures that messages are adhering to HL7®standards defined in messaging guides.
More details about METS may be found here.
More details on testing resources may be found at the Data Interchange Standards website, CA Resources tab.
* International Organization of Standardization (ISO).
Conformity Assessment and Certification.
URL:  ** National Conformity Assessment Principles for the United States, NIST, 2007.
At:  RELATED PAGES Standards and Interoperability Classifications Data Interchange Standards PHIN Guides PHIN Vocabulary VIEW ALL PHIN Data Interchange Standards SOURCES PRINT SHARE PHIN PHIN tools and resources are provided below to help increase the capacity of public health agencies to electronically exchange health data and information.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
About CDC EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone CDC priorities Advancing Science and Health Equity Leadership CDC Organization Publications Advisory Committee Speakers Bureau CDC Organizational Charts About the New CDC.gov VIEW ALL Related Topics: CDC Newsroom | CDC Info | CDC Museum View All CDC priorities SEPT.
17, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW CDC serves the American public—individuals, families, and communities—who rely on accurate data, health guidance, and preventive measures.
CDC priorities statement As the world's premier public health institute, the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is at the front lines of public health threats to Americans, even when those threats emerge overseas.
CDC must aim to protect the lives of all Americans, advancing health through science, technology, and innovation.
CDC must lead with integrity to prevent and protect from diseases, detect emerging threats, both domestically and internationally, and drive state-of-the-art solutions—empowering communities and strengthening public health systems for a safer, healthier nation.
CDC serves the American public—individuals, families, and communities—who rely on accurate data, health guidance, and preventive measures.
CDC also serves healthcare providers, researchers, policymakers, businesses, state and local health agencies, and global health partners that rely on CDC for data and guidance to scale improved health outcomes for all Americans at home and abroad.
To strengthen public confidence and lead a modern public health system, CDC must be anchored in a set of core values that reflect the evolving needs and expectations of Americans.
Public trust in CDC must be restored through transparency and reliance on evidence-based scientific data and analysis.
Americans benefit from practical, science-driven steps to protect their health and further expect proactive, fast responses to health risks.
America additionally needs a public health system that embraces innovation and a modernized infrastructure.
Understanding the fundamental role CDC plays in the public health sphere, the following Priorities Statement illustrates the overall direction of CDC, in furtherance of the goals of the President and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary.
The following is not an exhaustive list of CDC priorities but is, instead, a roadmap highlighting goals and priorities, all through the lens of providing Gold-Standard Science, as envisioned in the Make America Healthy Again Commission Report and the Make Our Children Healthy Again Strategy .
President Trump and HHS Secretary Kennedy are committed to restoring trust, transparency, and credibility to CDC.
CDC is committed to those goals and is likewise committed to ensuring that its leadership and all decisions are public facing and more accountable.
CDC is committed to strengthening our public health system and restoring it to its core mission of protecting Americans from infectious and communicable diseases and investing in innovation to prevent, detect, and respond to such public health threats.
CDC is further committed to ensuring that any outbreaks—including any response to those outbreaks—is addressed transparently and with evidenced-based data.
CDC is specifically prioritizing a commitment to: gold-standard science;1 global leadership; rebuilding trust, transparency, and credibility; rapid, evidence-based responses to crises; vaccine safety and efficacy research; advancing our understanding of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), and chronic disease; modernizing public health infrastructure while enhancing our approach to health data; and otherwise ensuring compliance with the goals and priorities of the Trump Administration and HHS.
A commitment to gold-standard science and ensuring trust, transparency, and credibility Public trust in CDC and public health has declined in recent years due to inconsistent messaging, lack of transparency, and challenges in responding appropriately to emerging health threats.
Dwindling public trust has undermined CDC's ability to lead effectively during crises and has weakened public adherence to health recommendations.
Strengthening and sustaining this trust is essential to CDC's mission, as it enables rapid decision-making, stronger partnerships, and coordinated national responses in times of crisis.
More broadly, sustained trust ensures communities engage with prevention efforts, support science-based guidance, and contribute to a healthier, more resilient nation.
Credibility is not just about better communication, it is foundational to CDC's long-term impact, effectiveness, and legitimacy.
CDC will achieve this trust and credibility by making its leadership more public-facing and accountable to Americans; improving data transparency and ensuring all recommendations are backed by clear, publicly accessible evidence; and establishing processes to ensure integrity in scientific decision-making.
As illustrated by the Trump Administration's Executive Order on "Restoring Gold Standard Science," CDC will conduct all science in a manner that is reproducible; transparent; communicative of error and uncertainty; collaborative and interdisciplinary; skeptical of its findings and assumptions; structured for falsifiability of hypotheses; subject to unbiased peer review; accepting of negative results as positive outcomes; and without conflicts of interest.
CDC is committed to restoring a gold standard for science to ensure that federally funded research is transparent, rigorous, and impactful, and that all decisions are informed by the most credible, reliable, and impartial scientific evidence available.
CDC is committed to restoring Americans' faith in the scientific enterprise and institutions that create and apply scientific knowledge in service of the public good.
Employing gold-standard science methodologies will spur innovation, translate discovery to success, and ensure continued American strength and global leadership in technology.
A commitment to global leadership CDC's Global Health Center addresses global challenges such as HIV, tuberculosis, vaccine-preventable diseases, and emergency and refugee health.
When a viral hemorrhagic fever is identified, such as Ebola, CDC is first to confirm the diagnosis and provide guidance on how to contain the virus within a country and to prevent it from entering the United States.
Strategically located in 63 countries around the globe, CDC also serves another 20 countries from these hubs.
As a major partner in implementing the PEPFAR program, CDC receives 40% of the resources and implements 60 percent of the program.
Across the globe and often with external organizations, CDC is a trusted partner identifying risks early, sending out teams to combat highly infectious disease, training local clinical and public health staff, providing Personal Protective Equipment, vaccine and medicines, and offering advice to Americans abroad as well as supporting international Governments and Ministries of Health leadership and response.
As part of an evolving system of response, the Biothreat Radar Detection program seeks out samples from wastewater and international travelers to know real-time when a new infection poses a risk to America.
In addition, CDC receives infectious samples from around the globe offering rapid testing and surveillance to prepare for flu at home and guide rapid response for highly infectious diseases where they start and can travel around the globe.
Through lessons learned from COVID-19, CDC has advanced its capacities to lead the world in keeping us safe here and abroad.
A commitment to ensuring rapid, evidence-based responses to crises Public health emergencies need fast, coordinated, transparent, and evidence-based responses.
Delays in data collection, fragmented decision-making, inconsistent guidance, and gaps in risk communication undermine the nation's ability to contain threats and protect lives.
Ensuring rapid, science-driven responses is critical to minimizing harm, maintaining public trust, and restoring stability.
To meet this goal, CDC must continue to strengthen its emergency response systems by streamlining internal processes, improving risk communication strategies, and ensuring that laboratory capacity is fully equipped and tested—capable of rapidly developing and deploying scalable diagnostics during crises.
Embedding structures for real-time learning, independent after-action reviews, and the application of lessons learned will ensure that each crisis response is smarter, faster, and more effective than the last.
To meet the challenges of today and anticipate the challenges of tomorrow, CDC must evolve into a high-performing, mission-driven organization that embraces innovation and streamlines operations.
Modernizing internal operations will ensure CDC is not only effective in crisis but consistently excellent in execution, delivering faster decisions, smarter resource use, and a greater impact for Americans.
A commitment to vaccine safety and efficacy research Gold-Standard Science will be applied to all intramural and extramural CDC vaccine safety and efficacy research.
CDC will ensure that CDC vaccine efficacy and safety databases and datasets as well as future contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and the like, for such datasets and databases are available through the least burdensome public use data agreements to restore trust and improve efficacy and safety through transparency and accountability.
CDC will also preserve all internal datasets, protocols, programs and adjustments to databases and datasets for public access and reproducibility.
A commitment to advancing our understanding of the causes of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), and chronic disease CDC is committed to conducting its own research while also partnering with other federal agencies and outside researchers and institutions to understand the etiology of the ASD and NDD epidemics.
CDC will utilize existing and new data resources both within and outside of CDC to better understand factors associated with the increases in ASD, NDD, and chronic diseases that are plaguing our children and adults.
CDC data indicates that ASD diagnoses have increased over the past 25 years from 1 in 150 to nearly 1 in 31.
A commitment to modernizing public health infrastructure and enhancing our approach to health data Modernizing public health infrastructure is essential to building a faster, smarter, and more cost-effective health system—one that can detect and respond to outbreaks in real time, leverage advanced technologies, and deliver community-driven solutions.
By investing in modern tools, integrated data, and state-of-the-art capabilities, CDC can lead a transformation that not only strengthens day-to-day operations but also ensures the nation is prepared for future health emergencies.
CDC's traditional data silos are being replaced with robust, integrated data that fosters interdisciplinary research to get faster, more robust results for Americans.
Enhancing CDC's (and HHS's) approach to health data must recognize that the states serve as key partners and must be encouraged to maintain robust and up-do-date health data systems.
There must be a shared responsibility across federal and state governments, while emphasizing the subsidiarity principle that public health functions should be performed at the lowest effective level of governance (the concept of subsidiarity), with federal structures offering support where scale or specialized expertise is required and as required by statute.
Network governance highlights the importance of collaborative, interdependent nodes (state-based service units, federal expertise, and Health Data Utilities (HDUs)) working through shared standards rather than hierarchical command.
Systems resilience frames the need for redundancy, adaptability, and transformability, ensuring that CDC can withstand shocks, respond to emerging public health crises, and evolve as public health challenges change.
Collectively, these principles guide a strategy that positions public health as local in action, national in standards, and global in preparedness, while leveraging existing assets such as the Consumer Food Data System (CFDS) and Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officers and modernizing infrastructure through HDUs.
Conflicts of interest The public must know that unbiased science—evaluated through a transparent process and insulated from conflicts of interest—guides the recommendations of our health agencies, and CDC-funded programs and activities carried out by Federal partners.
CDC will deprioritize funding for programs that present conflicts of interest or otherwise compromise their objectivity or integrity in carrying out CDC-funded programs.
Immigration Consistent with applicable federal law, Federal funds should not be used to encourage or support illegal immigration.
Protecting life and the family CDC programs will not use taxpayer funds to fund or promote elective abortions, consistent with the Hyde Amendment.
CDC will promote the dignity of human life at all stages of development, improve maternal health care, and strengthen the family.
Ending disorder on America's streets CDC grants will prioritize evidence-based programs and deprioritize programs that fail to achieve adequate outcomes, including so-called "harm reduction" or "safe consumption" efforts that only facilitate illegal drug use and its attendant harm, consistent with SAMHSA guidance issued on July 29, 2025.
CDC will deprioritize support for "housing first" policies that fail to ensure accountability and fail to promote treatment, recovery, and self-sufficiency.
CDC will increase competition among grantees through broadening the applicant pool and hold grantees to higher standards of effectiveness in reducing homelessness and increasing public safety.
CDC will ensure that its funds reduce rather than promote homelessness by supporting, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable federal law, comprehensive services for individuals with serious mental illness and substance use disorder, including crisis intervention services.
CDC does not support drug injection sites for illegal drugs, or so-called "safe consumption sites," or the use or distribution of illegal drugs and associated paraphernalia.
To the extent allowable by applicable federal law, CDC intends to give priority to grantees in States and municipalities that actively meet the below criteria: (i) enforce prohibitions on open illicit drug use; (ii) enforce prohibitions on urban camping and loitering; (iii) enforce prohibitions on urban squatting; (iv) enforce, and where necessary, adopt, standards that address individuals who are a danger to themselves or others and suffer from serious mental illness or substance use disorder, or who are living on the streets and cannot care for themselves, through assisted outpatient treatment or by moving them into treatment centers or other appropriate facilities via civil commitment or other available means, to the maximum extent permitted by law; or (v) substantially implement and comply with, to the extent required, the registration and notification obligations of the Sex Offender Registry and Notification Act, particularly in the case of registered sex offenders with no fixed address, including by adequately mapping and checking the location of homeless sex offenders.
Gender ideology and protecting children CDC believes the health and safety of children must be the highest priority.
HHS released a comprehensive review of the evidence and best practices for promoting the health of children and adolescents with gender dysphoria.
This review, informed by an evidence-based medicine approach, found medical interventions, such as puberty blockers, cross-sex hormones, and surgeries, that attempt to transition minors away from their sex are unsupported by the evidence and have an unfavorable risk/benefit profile.
Based on that evidence, it is a CDC priority to protect children from these practices, and, to the extent allowable by applicable federal law and any relevant court orders, CDC programs will deprioritize programs that engage in these practices where permissible.
CDC funds will also not support the costs of such practices where not required by the law or court order.
HHS released guidance promulgating sex-based definitions rooted in biological truth.
It is a CDC priority to recognize that a person's sex as either male or female is unchangeable and determined by objective biology, and to ensure CDC programs accurately reflect science, including the biological reality of sex.
DEI To the extent permitted by law, CDC will deprioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives that prioritize group identity over individual merit.
CDC believes opportunities should be based on character, effort, and ability, not race or other group identity.
CDC is committed to restoring merit-based opportunities and removing unlawful discriminatory practices (including unlawful proxies for racial discrimination).
CDC has previously invested substantially in ideologically-laden concepts like health equity—mainly on identifying and documenting worse health outcomes for minority populations.
This has not translated into measurable improved health for minority populations, and in many cases has undermined core American values.
CDC will prioritize efforts that go beyond the use of ideologically laden concepts to focusing on solution-oriented approaches.
This includes actively testing, advancing, scaling, and implementing innovative evidence-based interventions and treatments that address poor health outcomes, including the root causes of Americans' chronic disease epidemic.
Parental rights CDC believes parents are the primary decision-makers in their children's education and should have full authority over what their children are taught.
School policies should include transparency and choice, and curricula should emphasize knowledge, critical thinking, and civic responsibility, without imposing ideas that may conflict with parents' political, religious, or social beliefs.
CDC will prioritize funding Federal partners that protect parental rights and provide maximum transparency to parents and the public.
CDC will implement these priorities consistent with applicable laws, regulations, court orders, and any required procedures.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE About CDC Learn about CDC’s mission to protect you 24-7.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All MAY 17, 2024 Immunization Information Systems Resources ABOUT Immunization information systems (IIS) are confidential, population-based, computerized databases that record all immunization doses administered by participating providers to persons residing within a given geopolitical area.
What is IIS ?
At the point of clinical care, an IIS can provide consolidated immunization histories for use by a vaccination provider in determining appropriate client vaccinations.
At the population level, an IIS provides aggregate data on vaccinations for use in surveillance and program operations, and in guiding public health action with the goals of improving vaccination rates and reducing vaccine-preventable disease.
Program Support IIS help immunization programs identify populations at high risk for vaccine-preventable diseases and target interventions and resources efficiently.
Privacy and Confidentiality IIS must protect the privacy of all users, including children, families, and providers.
According to standards set by CDC, all IIS must have a written privacy policy that clearly defines the following: Notification – parents must be notified of the existence of the IIS, what information will be contained in it, and how the information will be used.
Choice – Parents must be allowed to choose whether to participate in the IIS.
Use of IIS information – IIS information must only be used for its intended purpose and not be used in a punitive manner.
Access to and Disclosure of IIS information – Policies must clearly define who has access to IIS information, what constitutes a breach of confidentiality, and what the associated penalties are.
Data Retention – the period of time that IIS information will be kept.
Consolidated Records IIS combine immunization information from different sources into a single record and provide official immunization records for school, day care, and camp entry requirements.
Timely Immunization IIS remind families when an immunization is due or has been missed.
Clinical Decision Support IIS help providers and parents determine when immunizations are due and help ensure that children get only the vaccinations they need.
Data Exchange IIS are capable of exchanging immunization information with immunization healthcare providers.
Data exchange between IIS and other information systems helps ensure timely immunizations, consolidation of records, and allows immunization providers to work more efficiently.
ON THIS PAGE What is IIS ?
Program Support Privacy and Confidentiality Consolidated Records Timely Immunization Clinical Decision Support Data Exchange SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People NHSN CDA Submission Support Portal (CSSP) Search CDC's website is being modified to comply with President Trump's Executive Orders.
NHSN CDA Submission Support Portal (CSSP) Print Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a Health Level 7 (HL7) standard that provides a framework for the encoding, formatting and semantics of electronic documents.
CDC’s National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) supports CDA import of certain healthcare-associated infection (HAI) data.
To assist programmers in creating standards for reporting via CDA import, NHSN offers an Implementation Guide and associated materials based fully on HL7-balloted CDA document specifications.
Types of data that can be reported include event reports, denominator data, and process-of-care measures.
About CDA What is Clinical Document Architecture?
Getting Started How to implement CDA for HAI reporting.
FAQs Common questions asked by CDA implementers.
Implementation Toolkits & Resources NHSN HAI Implementation Guides, IDMs and toolkits.
Data Validation & Testing Tools to validate and test your CDA data as per NHSN specifications.
Webinars & Training Videos Webinars on NHSN releases and CDA training.
Importing Data How to import your data into NHSN using CDA, CSV or Direct.
Innovation Tools Data sets and algorithmic web services.
Promoting Interoperability Overview of NHSN AUR Module reporting for the Promoting Interoperability Program.
Quick Links CDA Toolkit Release 13.0 Guide to CDA Versions DIRECT Protocol CMS Requirements VAE Synthetic Data Set Top FAQs What import/export type to select for a CDA or CSV file import?
I don’t see the option available to import my CDA files on the Import/Export screen in NHSN.
Could not find NHSN organization by OID in the CDA error report.
CDA is not accepted for event dates greater than or less than a specific year.
What are the requirements for CDA files?
I am not able to import CDAs or see any error reports in Internet Explorer.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 23, 2024 Core Data Elements For IIS Functional Standards v4.0 ABOUT Learn about the data elements that are needed by an IIS to record patient demographics and vaccination events to meet the IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
Introduction The CDC endorsed data elements represent the data elements that are needed by an IIS to record patient demographics and vaccination events to meet the IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
An IIS should store the CDC endorsed data elements listed below if the elements are sent from an external information system and meet the IIS's data quality criteria.
This list does not include all data elements external information systems such as EHRs, vital records, practice management or billing systems are expected to send to an IIS.
The list may not include all data elements an IIS produces, stores or sends.
Data elements may be derived and architectural solution may differ among IIS.
Definitions of the CDC endorsed data elements below can be found at: CDC Endorsed Data Element Definitions Patient Demographic Data Elements Date of history of vaccine preventable disease Ethnicity History of disease/titer Mother’s name: first Mother’s name: middle Mother’s name: last Mother’s name: maiden last Patient address: county of residence Patient address: city Patient address: country Patient address: state Patient address: street Patient address: zip code Patient alias name: first Patient alias name: middle Patient alias name: last Patient birth order Patient birth state Patient date of birth Patient e-mail address Patient sex Patient ID Patient ID: type IIS Patient ID Patient multiple birth indicator Patient name: first Patient name: middle Patient name: last Patient primary language Patient status indicator-provider level Patient status-jurisdiction level Patient telephone number Patient telephone number type Protection Indicator1 Protection indicator effective date1 Reminder recall status1 Reminder recall status effective date1 Race Responsible person name: first Responsible person name: middle Responsible person name: last Responsible person relationship to patient Vaccination Event Data Elements Vaccination Data Elements Contraindications/precautions Contraindications/precautions observation date Dose level eligibilityꞎ Exemptions/refusals date Exemptions/refusals reason Vaccination administration date Vaccine dose volume Vaccine dose volume units Vaccination event record type (administered/historical) Vaccine funding source (dose level public/private indicator)1ꞎꞎ Vaccine expiration date Vaccine lot number Vaccine manufacturer name Vaccine product Vaccine route of administration2 Vaccine site of administration2 IIS vaccination event ID1 Vaccination event ID1 Vaccine information statement2 Vaccine information statement given date2 Provider Data Elements Vaccine ordering provider (person) Vaccine administering provider suffix Vaccine administering provider (person) Facility Identifier Data Elements Administered at location1 Sending organization1 Responsible organization1 1Data element is new for IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
2Data element should be captured in the IIS if the IIS is used as the primary vaccination event record (e.g., mass vaccination clinic).
ꞎDefinition: the program that should pay for a given immunization, based on the characteristics of the patient and the type of vaccine administered.
Eligibility is captured for each dose.
ꞎꞎDefinition: the funding source of the vaccine administered.
Identifies the administered vaccine as publically funded, privately funded, or with other jurisdiction specific funding.
RELATED PAGES Historical Core Data Elements Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Historical Core Data Elements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 1, 2024 IIS Resources and Reference Materials Links IIS Acronyms and Abbreviations Educates individuals about the meaning for regularly used acronyms related to Immunization Informati...
IIS Frequently Asked Questions Used for sharing basic information about IIS that might assist the public in better understanding th...
Immunization Information System (IIS) Functional Standards4.1 The standard technical, functional and data characteristics of an IIS.
IIS Functional Standards Resource Guide (V4.2) Find the primary resources for with the IIS Functional Standards v4.2, including general resources a...
About Partners and Organizational Support for IIS Partners and organizations that offer support for immunization registries.
Sustainability Resources Describes resources to support immunization programs for funding options for IIS.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JUNE 12, 2024 IIS Technical Guidance WHAT TO KNOW The use of IIS standards such as HL7 and supporting implementation tools continues to be a critical component of achieving and maintaining a fully operational IIS.
In collaboration with internal and external stakeholders, the Informatics and Data Analytics Branch (IDAB) has developed recommendations, implementation resources, and guidance documents that grantees can use and customize to meet the needs of their IIS technical environment.
Visit the Code Sets page for information on code sets and mapping between code sets.
Technical Guidance Resources Health Level 7 (HL7) Transport (SOAP) Deduplication HL7 SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) For Everyone SEPT.
17, 2025 AT A GLANCE Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations (CDSi) is an automated process that determines the ACIP recommended immunizations needed for a patient and delivers these recommendations to the healthcare provider.
CDSi: Clarity, Consistency, and Computability Immunization clinical decision support (CDS), more commonly referred to as evaluation and forecasting, is an automated process that determines the recommended immunizations needed for a patient and delivers these recommendations to the healthcare provider.
Health Information Systems (HIS) – which can include Health Information Exchanges (HIEs), Immunization Information Systems (IIS) and Electronic Health Records (EHRs) – provide healthcare providers with immunization evaluation and forecasting tools designed to automatically determine the recommended immunizations needed when a patient presents for vaccination.
These recommendations are developed by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
ACIP is a federal advisory committee responsible for providing expert external advice and guidance to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Secretary of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) on use of vaccines and related agents for control of vaccine-preventable disease in the United States.
Recommendations include age for vaccine administration, number of doses, dosing interval, and precautions and contraindications.
After ACIP recommendations are published, technical and clinical subject matter experts (SMEs) work to interpret and integrate them into their evaluation and forecasting engines.
New ACIP schedule changes are currently communicated only through clinical language, in publications like the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) and the Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (“The Pink Book”).
The translation of that clinical language into technical logic that can be processed within evaluation and forecasting engines is a time-consuming and complex process that happens mostly independently within the different HIS.
Due to the challenge of interpreting clinically-written ACIP recommendations, CDS engine outputs often varied and did not always match the expectations of clinical SMEs.
To this end, the Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) project has developed and maintains resources to aid HIS implementers align with the current ACIP recommendations.
These resources are summarized in the following introductory materials.
They capture ACIP recommendations in an unambiguous manner and improve both the uniform representation of vaccine decision guidelines, as well as the ability to automate vaccine evaluation and forecasting.
The target audience for the Logic Specification and Supporting Data includes business and/or technical implementers of immunization CDS engines.
These implementers may support any system with an immunization evaluation and forecasting engine, including but not limited to IIS.
The Logic Specification and the Supporting Data were developed to be as implementation-neutral as possible to support those currently with or without complete evaluation and forecasting engines as they: Refine, extend, or develop their implementation; Clarify their understanding of immunization rules; and Troubleshoot and verify correct implementation of immunization rules.
Test Cases The CDSi test cases are comprised of two spreadsheets.
The first spreadsheet covers routine age-based recommendations for both childhood and adults.
The second spreadsheet covers recommendations where an underlying condition (e.g., risk factor) may result in an immunity, contraindication, or indication to vaccinate.
CDSi Test Cases – Healthy Childhood and Adult, version 4.44 – Updated August 2025 CDSi Test Cases – Underlying Conditions, version 4.6 – Updated September 2025 User Support Please email any questions to: IISinfo@cdc.gov.
ON THIS PAGE CDSi: Clarity, Consistency, and Computability CDSi Logic Specification and Supporting Data Test Cases User Support CDSi Training Material Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All AUGUST 23, 2024 Historical Core Data Elements ABOUT IIS Standards: Recommended Core Data Elements for Immunization Registries.
Includes origin and development, list of core data elements, and immunization event identifiers.
Note The IIS Core Data Elements have been updated as of 12/7/2012.
The 2013-2018 Core Data Elements supersede the 2007 IIS Recommended Core Data Elements and accompany revised IIS Functional Standards for 2013-2018.
Origin and Development of the Core Data Items The original Immunization Information Systems (IIS) core data items were prepared in 1995 by CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases in consultation with the Immunization Grantee Working Group.
It was reviewed by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC), and recommendations of NVAC were incorporated.
Contributions were also made by public health representatives and private providers.
On February 5, 2007 NVAC approved a new set of core data items which were developed in consultation with CDC and the American Immunization Registry Association.
These elements represent fundamental attributes necessary for identifying individuals and for describing immunization events.
Required elements are critical for record exchange purposes, client deduplication, vaccine management, immunization status evaluation, reminder / recall and data analysis or use purposes.
Optional core data elements are less important for record exchange.
Some optional items (e.g., address) may be useful only at the local level.
Purpose The purpose of the core data element is to facilitate record exchange between IIS.
It is imperative that, at a minimum, each IIS include in its database schema a method to receive and store all of the required core data elements, even if the IIS does not routinely collect the information.
Thus, if an IIS receives a record from one system and subsequently transfers it to another, no required core data elements will be lost in the process.
It is strongly recommended that IIS also collect data on all of the required core data elements for their own patients.
Prospective implementation should begin on or before January 1, 2009 to enhance completeness and value of IIS data.
List of Core Data Items Label Status (Required/Optional) Patient name: first, middle, last Required Patient alias name: first, middle, last Optional Patient address, phone number Optional Birthing facility Optional Patient Social Security number (SSN) Optional Patient birth date Required Patient sex Required **Patient race Required **Patient ethnicity Required Patient Primary language Optional **Patient birth order Required Patient birth registration number Optional Patient birth State/country Required Patient Medicaid number Optional Mother’s name: First, middle, last, maiden Required Mother’s SSN Optional Father’s name: first, middle, last Optional Father’s SSN Optional Vaccine Type Required Vaccine Manufacturer Required Vaccine dose number Optional Vaccine expiration date Optional Vaccine injection site Optional Vaccination date Required Vaccine lot number Required Vaccine provider Optional **Historical vaccination flag indicator Optional **VFC eligibility Optional **History of varicella disease indicator Optional **Patient status indicators that include active, inactive, MOGE, and other classifications Optional ** Changes with the 2007 report.
Other Notes and References: Patient alias name: first, middle, last (former names for management of adoptions and name changes) Patient address, phone number, birthing facility (these variables should be locally defined) Immunization Event Identifiers Vaccine type (Use HL7-defined Table 0292 – Vaccines Administered (code=CVX) found in Appendix 1.
Note that up-to-date versions of this table will be maintained on the CDC Vaccines & Immunizations website.
Vaccine Manufacturer (Use HL7-defined Table 0227 – Manufacturers of vaccines (code=MVX) found in Appendix 1.
Note that up-to-date versions of this table will be maintained on the CDC Vaccines & Immunizations website.
Vaccine dose number With a fully operating system, this variable is not needed.
However, in the real world, and particularly during the initial startup phase, many systems will be gathering partial histories; therefore, to evaluate histories properly, dose number becomes very important.
References for Guidance Each of the variables listed in the above table are described in detail in the following guides which offer specific guidance on implementation.
The current Health Level 7 Immunization Guide contains both messaging details and coding definitions.
ON THIS PAGE Note Origin and Development of the Core Data Items List of Core Data Items Immunization Event Identifiers SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JULY 31, 2024 Sustainability Resources ABOUT State public health agencies and Medicaid agencies can access funding to support the use of immunization information system (IIS) data in clinical practice to improve patient outcomes and public health.
Resource Links Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) Fact Sheets ASTHO, in collaboration with HealthTech Solutions and CDC, with input from HHS Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), developed technical fact sheets for state health agencies interested in learning, assessing, and applying for 90/10, 75/25, or 50/50 Medicaid match funding opportunities.
(Scroll down the page to “Immunization Information Systems Fact Sheets.”) Public Health Informatics Institute Medicaid 90/10 Match Funding Toolkit This toolkit provides tools for state health agencies to begin working with their Medicaid agencies to apply for match funding opportunities.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 26, 2024 IIS Deduplication AT A GLANCE Deduplication of immunization records is a two-fold problem that includes deduplication at the demographic/patient level (e.g., two records describe the same patient) and deduplication at the vaccination event level (e.g., two records describe the same immunization).
Resources have been developed to assist with both aspects of deduplication.
Patient Level Deduplication Patient deduplication is the process of removing redundant patient records from a database, preventing fragmented and duplicate information from being processed and ensuring that updates and queries apply to the correct record.
Inconsistencies in determining which records represent the same patient, as well as errors in combining patient’s immunization records, negatively affect the overall data quality and usefulness of Immunization Information Systems (IIS).
The following resource was developed by subject matter experts in the field of patient deduplication and matching.
If you have any questions, please send them via email to iisinfo@cdc.gov.
ON THIS PAGE Vaccine Level Deduplication Patient Level Deduplication RELATED PAGES IIS Technical Guidance HL7 Transport (SOAP) Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) IIS Resources and Reference Materials SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JUNE 12, 2024 CDSi Training Material Resources AT A GLANCE Whether you are new to the CDSi resources or looking for information on a specific topic, there are a variety of materials available to support your use of the CDSi resources.
Available Training Materials The training materials fall into two categories: Learn and Practice.
Here are a few ways to use them: New to the materials?
Start with Learn and then proceed to Practice.
Aware of the resources, but not sure where to start?
Take the CDSi Self-Assessment to identify the performance support materials designed to meet your specific needs.
3.Familiar with the resources, but need help with a particular concept?
Choose the specific topic you are interested in learning.
If you don’t see what you’re looking for, email iisinfo@cdc.gov with your specific questions.
ON THIS PAGE Available Training Materials Learn Practice SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JULY 26, 2024 Transport (SOAP) WHAT TO KNOW Transmission and receipt of health data from one system to another is achieved through an agreed-upon transport layer.
In 2011, a panel of industry experts concluded that SOAP Web Services was the best fit for meeting the needs of transmitting immunization data via HL7 messaging.
The experts also defined a WSDL for all trading partners to implement, with the goal that all trading partners implement at least the nationally-specified WSDL.
This doesn’t preclude IIS and others from supporting additional transport layers.
This specification contains the SOAP WSDL, which should be implemented without modification.
Implementation Testing Support The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) provides testing tools to ensure consistent and conformant implementation of the CDC WSDL.
The tooling can test both the sender and the receiver sides of the CDC WSDL.
Educational Material: The American Immunization Registry Association (AIRA) has developed three educational resources related to SOAP and the CDC WSDL .
ON THIS PAGE Implementation Resources: Educational Material: Background Information: SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JULY 11, 2024 IIS Health Level 7 (HL7) Implementation Guide (IG) AT A GLANCE The consolidated version of the HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging is the current standard recognized by CDC and AIRA for Immunization messaging.
HL7 v2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging, Release 1.5 Format Content Release 1.5 and Addendum HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging Published October 15, 2018 Release 1.5 and addendum represent the current standard recognized by CDC and AIRA for immunization messaging.
Release 1.5 HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging Published October 1, 2014 Release 1.5 specifies IIS immunization messaging requirements.
Addendum HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging (Release 1.5)—Addendum Published July 1, 2015 The addendum supplements Release 1.5 by providing general conformance requirement clarifications; no additional requirements are specified.
Corrections from Release 1.5 are also included.
Help Shape the Next National Implementation Guide Submit feedback about the National Implementation Guide by completing this short online form.
Your feedback is appreciated so that issues with the current release can be addressed in an upcoming release.
National Implementation Guide Dashboard Is Now Live!
Our National Implementation Guide Dashboard shows all reported issues that have been noted about the Guide, progress on issue resolution, and specific notes concerning the issue, including when the issue is expected to be resolved.
NOTE: Before submitting any issues, check the Dashboard’s home page.
It has a summary of issues already reported and a search tool to find them.
If your issue has not been previously reported, use the REDCap form to submit it.
Once submitted, you can check the status of the issue on the “Work Item by Status” page.
A full-screen version of the dashboard is available by clicking the “Open in new window” button on the bottom right of the dashboard .
ON THIS PAGE HL7 v2.5.1 Implementation Guide for Immunization Messaging, Release 1.5 Help Shape the Next National Implementation Guide National Implementation Guide Dashboard Is Now Live!
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 About Partners and Organizational Support for IIS WHAT TO KNOW A listing of partners and organizations that offer support for immunization information systems.
Task Force on Community Preventive Services The Task Force on Community Preventive Services completed a systematic review of all available studies on the effectiveness of IIS in July 2010, and recommends IIS on the basis of strong evidence of effectiveness in increasing vaccination rates.
Evidence is considered strong based on the findings from 71 published papers and 123 conference abstracts showing that IIS are directly related to increasing vaccination rates and reducing vaccine-preventable disease through their capabilities to: Create or support effective interventions such as client reminder and recall systems, provider assessment and feedback, and provider reminders.
Generate and evaluate public health responses to outbreaks of vaccine-preventable disease.
Facilitate vaccine management and accountability.
Determine client vaccination status for decisions made by clinicians, health departments, and schools.
Aid surveillance and investigations on vaccination rates, missed vaccination opportunities, invalid dose administration, and disparities in vaccination coverage.
More on the Task Force Recommendations and Findings National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) The National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) advises and makes recommendations to the Director of the National Vaccine Program on matters related to program responsibilities, and serves in an advisory role to the Assistant Secretary for Health, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
NVAC has issued several reports and recommendations on IIS.
Additional IIS partners are listed on the AIRA partner organization list PHII (Public Health Informatics Institute) PHII makes public health informatics real, understandable and actionable by making available concrete resources, guidance and training to the public health practitioners who plan and shape the future of childhood immunizations.
PHII supports the public health workforce through skill-building, and trains public health practitioners to increase their ability to collect, manage and use information to support public health practice.
Formal Resolutions AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics) Policy Statement on Immunization Information Systems APHA (American Public Health Association) The Need for Continued and Strengthened Support of Immunization Programs Organizations that Support or Endorse IIS The following organizations have issued letters of support or endorsement for IIS: AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics) Policy on the Development of Immunization Tracking Systems AHIP (America’s Health Insurance Plans) AMA (American Medical Association) AOA (American Osteopathic Association) APHA (The American Public Health Association) ASHA (American School Health Association) ASTHO (Association of State and Territorial Health Officers) IPAVAPP (Informed Parents Against Vaccine Associated Paralytic Polio) NACCHO (National Assoc.
of County & City Health Officials) NAPNAP (National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates and Practitioners) NASN (National Association of School Nurses) NMA (National Medical Association) USDoE (U.S.
Department of Education) To obtain a copy of any of these letters, please contact IDAB at iisinfo@cdc.gov.
ON THIS PAGE Task Force on Community Preventive Services National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) Partner Organizations Formal Resolutions Organizations that Support or Endorse IIS RELATED PAGES IIS Resources and Reference Materials Acronyms Frequently Asked Questions IIS Functional Standards Resource Guide (V4.2) Sustainability Resources VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Sustainability Resources SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JULY 10, 2024 IIS Functional Standards Resource Guide (V4.2) WHAT TO KNOW Find the primary resources for with the IIS Functional Standards v4.2, including general resources and resources related to each functional standard.
Resource Guide These are the primary resources associated with the IIS Functional Standards v 4.1 (Standards), including IIS general resources as well as resources related to each functional standard.
The resource guide is not an exhaustive list.
Instead, it contains key introductory or advanced/technical resources.
The resource guide also includes the American Immunization Registry Association (AIRA) Resource Repository Key Words to help locate additional content related to each functional standard in the AIRA Resource Repository.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All AUGUST 1, 2024 IIS Frequently Asked Questions WHAT TO KNOW This page contains frequently asked questions about Immunization Information Systems.
Below are the frequently asked questions about Immunization Information Systems, the data in them and how individuals can ensure the privacy of and gain access to their immunization records.
Q: What are Immunization Information Systems?
A: IISs are confidential, population-based databases that record all vaccine doses administered by participating providers in a specific geographic area.
Q: Why do Immunization Information Systems exist?
A: A primary use of the IIS is to make sure that all individuals have all of their immunizations and that the information regarding immunizations received and immunizations needed is available when your doctor needs it.
All of the immunizations given are based on a schedule that tells providers when certain shots should be given.
The immunization schedule is complex and does change.
An IIS, helps doctors decide which shots should be given and when.
Q: What information is in an IIS?
A: Information in an IIS is different in every state, but should contain at least the following information: patient name (first, middle, and last), patient birth date, patient sex, patient birth state/country, patient address, mother’s name, the types and dates of vaccines given, the lot number for and manufacturer of the vaccine and the date the shot was given.
Q: How is my immunization record and information protected?
A: State or jurisdictional law requires that information in the IIS be kept confidential.
Only you, your doctor, or healthcare workers who assist you have access to the information.
The information will not be shared with any other people or any other agency.
Q: Who do I contact to see if my child is in an IIS or if I want a copy of my child’s immunization record?
A: You must contact your provider, or local or state immunization program.
Use this web page for finding the IIS in your jurisdiction.
Contacts for Immunization Records Q: What can an IIS do for a provider practice?
A: An IIS simplifies immunization record keeping, provides quicker access to immunization records, and helps keep track of a patient’s immunization status.
IIS can also help: (1) easily find immunizations for individuals new to a practice, (2) provide official copies of immunization records, (3) reduce or eliminate chart pulls needed for coverage assessment and Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) reviews, and (4) facilitate routine doses administered reports for vaccine accountability.
Q: What will participation in an IIS cost a provider practice?
A: There is no charge for providers to use an IIS, although incorporating use of the IIS into your office’s daily procedures will take an investment of time and effort.
Q: Is reporting to an IIS subject to the HIPAA Privacy Rule?
Reporting of immunizations to an IIS are exempt from the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Privacy Rule since it is considered a public health activity.
Q: How is information in the IIS kept confidential?
A: IIS must protect the privacy of all users, including children, families, and providers.
According to standards set by CDC, all IIS are required to have a written privacy policy that clearly defines notice of inclusion in the IIS, access, to, and use and disclosure of IIS data.
For more information, ask the IIS in your area for a copy of their confidentiality policy.
Q: Do IIS really help improve immunization?
For journal articles documenting IIS effectiveness, visit CDC’s IIS publications database.
Q: What do other healthcare providers think about IIS?
A: Policy Statements and Letters of Support or Endorsement of IIS have been written by the following organizations: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Medical Association, National Association of Pediatric Nurses, Associates and Practitioners, National Medical Association Q: Can pharmacists participate in an IIS?
Pharmacists that administer vaccines and are interested in participating in the IIS, should contact the IIS in their jurisdiction.
Q: Can the IIS exchange data with Electronic Medical Records (EMR) or Electronic Health Records (EHR)?
A: IIS have capacity to electronically exchange data with clinical systems including electronic medical records.
The capacity and direction of this exchange depends on the technical capacity of the electronic medical record system and the IIS.
IIS use the industry standard Health Level 7 (HL7) protocol to exchange immunization information.
Q: What type of equipment do I need to electronically link with the IIS?
A: Exchanging immunization information with IIS can be done in a variety of different ways.
The electronic health record (EHR) application used in the practice should have the ability to create an interface file that conforms to a standard exchange format.
Depending on the type of clinical application and clinical workflow, the IIS may be accessible directly from with the clinical application.
Additional software requirements may be necessary for authentication, encryption and sending the file to the IIS.
IIS and clinical applications are encouraged to find solutions to reduce the burden of duplicate data entry.
Q: How is a client’s immunization record and information protected?
A: IIS users must be authorized to have access to data stored in an IIS.
Users must sign an agreement and follow strict confidentiality and security policies.
Protection of IIS data is managed through state privacy, confidentiality, and security laws and through compliance with federal privacy rules and regulations.
Some important factors that have helped facilitate IIS development include: Laws specifically authorizing the Department of Health to establish and maintain an immunization information system.
Some laws require reporting to the IIS; other laws allow reporting.
Both types of laws may address liability concerns.
Statutory provisions providing immunities from civil and/or criminal liability for providers who make good faith disclosures to immunization information systems or rely on information in immunization information systems.
Other important statutory provisions include: penalties for improper disclosure of information provisions defining with whom immunization information can be shared (e.g., providers, schools, health department) provisions allowing parents to opt out or limit access to immunization registry information.
While opt out and consent provisions are particularly important to some religious groups, victims of domestic violence, and others, in fact only a small percentage of people exercises these options.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 2, 2024 IIS Acronyms and Abbreviations KEY POINTS Acronyms and abbreviations used by immunization programs, IIS workforce across the programs, IIS technology partners, throughout the Immunization Information System site are defined below.
Acronyms AART Aggregate Analysis Reporting Tool ACIP Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices AIM Association of Immunization Managers AIRA American Immunization Registry Association APHL Association of Public Health Laboratories ASTHO Association for State and Territorial Health Officials AWS Amazon Web Services BAA Business Associate Agreement CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDSi Clinical Decision Support for Immunization CoAg Cooperative Agreement CVRS COVID-19 Vaccine Reporting Specification CVX Vaccine Administered DMI Data Modernization Initiative DUA Data Use Agreement EHR Electronic Health Record EMR Electronic Medical Record EUA Emergency Use Authorization FERPA Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act FISMA Federal Information Security Modernization Act H-CORE HHS Coordination Operations and Response Element HEDIS Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set HHS Department of Health and Human Services HIPAA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HL7 Health Level Seven HPOP Health Partner Order Portal IDAB Informatics and Data Analytics Branch IIS Immunization Information System IISAR Immunization Information Systems Annual Report IPOM Immunization Program Operations Manual IQIP Immunization Quality Improvement Program ISD Immunization Services Division IZ Gateway, IZG Immunization Gateway MIROW Modeling of Immunization Registry Operations Workgroup MOU Memorandum of Understanding MPX monkeypox MVX Manufacturer of Vaccine NCIRD National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases NCVIA National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act NDC Vaccine National Drug Code NIS National Immunization Survey NIST National Institute for Standards and Technology NPHL Network for Public Health Law PHI Protected Health Information PHIG Public Health Infrastructure Grant PHII Public Health Informatics Institute PII Personal Identifiable Information PJA Provider-Jurisdiction Agreement PPRL Privacy-Preserving Record Linkage PWS Performance Work Statement SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol SOO Statement of Objectives SOP Standard Operating Procedure SOW Statement of Work VAERS Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System VAMS Vaccine Administration Management System VFC Vaccines for Children VIS Vaccine Information Statement VTrckS Vaccine Tracking System WSDL Web Services Definition Language RELATED PAGES IIS Resources and Reference Materials Frequently Asked Questions IIS Functional Standards Resource Guide (V4.2) Partner Organizations Sustainability Resources VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Frequently Asked Questions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All JULY 11, 2024 IIS Training Resources AT A GLANCE CDC supports training for Immunization Information System (IIS) through a number of outlets and national partners.
Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations (CDSi) Description Immunization clinical decision support (CDS), more commonly referred to as evaluation and forecasting, is an automated process that determines the recommended immunizations needed for a patient and delivers these recommendations to the healthcare provider.
Learn about key concepts of the CDSi Logic Specification, Supporting Data, and Testing Methodology.
IIS Leadership Workshop Description CDC offers a three day onsite leadership workshop for IIS Leadership, who must balance a growing list of responsibilities and priorities.
This is an invitation only event.
Topics in the workshop include: Provider and User Relationships Laws, Policies and Guidelines CDC Relationships Data Use Data Quality Leading, Learning and Influencing Audience The primary audiences for this workshop are: IIS leaders and immunization program managers Course and Materials IIS managers and immunization program managers interested in learning more about the course should contact iisinfo@cdc.gov.
Produced By CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases in partnership with the Public Health Informatics Institute.
Two-Dimensional (2D) Vaccine Barcoding Description Since 2010, CDC and its immunization partners have been exploring the potential of 2D barcoding to streamline immunization practices and enhance data quality.
Provider’s interested in learning about key concepts of the 2D barcoding, see the training resources for providers.
ON THIS PAGE Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations (CDSi) IIS Leadership Workshop Two-Dimensional (2D) Vaccine Barcoding SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All AUGUST 2, 2024 Contacts for IIS Immunization Records AT A GLANCE Find your or your child's immunization record through your state's IIS (Immunization Information System).
How to Contact Your Jurisdiction's IIS CDC does NOT have vaccination record information!
If you currently live or have lived in an area with an operational immunization information system (IIS), you may try to contact the IIS in your state or in the state where you or your child received their last shots to see if they have records contact your immunization provider directly or your local or state immunization program through your state's health department look for additional suggestions on how to locate immunization records: child | adult.
reference the grantee immunization web sites.
For general immunization-related questions you also may contact the CDC Information Contact Center at 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636).
Find Your Child's Immunization Record Through Your State's IIS Click a letter to "jump" to a state.
(Cities are listed within the state) A C D F G H I K L M N O P R S T U V W A Alabama | Alaska | American Samoa | Arizona | Arkansas Alabama Call: 800.469.4599 Web: Immunization Provider Registry with Internet Technology (ImmPRINT) Email contact form:  Alaska Call: 907-269-8090 Web:  Email: doh.dph.epi.docket@alaska.gov QR Code for Alaska’s IIS records: American Samoa Call: 684.699.9329/9328 Email:  Arizona Call: 602.364.3899 Web: Arizona State Immunization Information System Immunization Records:  QR Code for COVID-19 immunization records:  Arkansas Call: 800.574.4040, Option 4 Web: Arkansas Immunization Website Email: Immunization.Section@arkansas.gov C California | Colorado | Commonwealth of N.
Mariana Islands | Connecticut California Call: 800.578.7889 Web: California Immunization Registry COVID Vaccine Records: Digital COVID-19 Vaccine Record (ca.gov) Email: CAIRHelpdesk@cdph.ca.gov QR Codes: Colorado Call: 303.692.2420 Web: Colorado Immunization Information System (CIIS) Immunization Records: CIIS Public Portal Email: cdphe.ciis@state.co.us Commonwealth of N.
Mariana Islands Call: 670.236.8745 Web:  Immunization Records:  Email: immunization@chcc.health Connecticut Call: 860.509.7929 Web: Connecticut WebIZ Immunization Records: CT-WiZ Email: dph.immunizations@ct.gov Immunization Records Public Portal QR Code: D Delaware | District of Columbia Delaware Call: 800.282.8672 (in DE only) Or Call: 302.744.4850 Web: State of Delaware's Immunization Registry Email: immunizedph@delaware.gov District of Columbia Call: 202.576.7130 Non COVID Immunization Records:  COVID Immunization Records:  Email: doh.immunization@dc.gov F Florida Florida Call: 877.888.7468 Immunization Records:  Email: flshots@flhealth.gov G Georgia | Guam Georgia Call: 404.657.3158 Web: Georgia Immunization Registry (GRITS) Immunization Records:  Email: dph-immreg@dph.ga.gov Guam Call: 671.735.7143 Fax: 671.734.1475 Web:  Email: Adrian.Banu@dphss.guam.gov Celena.Calvo-Story@dphss.guam.gov H Hawaii Hawaii Call: 800.933.4832 Fax: 808.586.8347 Web: Hawaii Immunization Registry Email: immunization@doh.hawaii.gov I Idaho | Illinois | Indiana | Iowa Idaho Call: 208.334.5931 Web: Immunization Reminder Information System (IRIS) Email: IIP@dhw.idaho.gov Illinois Call: 217.785.1455 Web: Illinois Comprehensive Automated Immunization Registry Exchange (I-CARE) Immunization Records:  Email: dph.icare@illinois.gov Indiana Call: 888-227-4439 Non Immunizations Records:  COVID Immunization Records:  Providers :  Email: chirp@health.in.gov Iowa Call: 800.374.3958 Web: Immunization Registry Information System Link to: Immunization Records K Kansas | Kentucky Kansas Call: 877.296.0464 Fax: 785.559.4227 Immunization Records: Kansas Statewide Immunization Registry Email: kdhe.ImmunizationRegistry@ks.gov Kentucky Call: 502.564.0038 Web: Kentucky Immunization Registry Email: KYIRHelpdesk@ky.gov L Louisiana Louisiana Call: 504.568.2600 Web: LINKS basics | Department of Health | State of Louisiana (la.gov) Immunization Records: Request vaccination records | Department of Health | State of Louisiana (la.gov) M Maine | Marshall Islands | Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Micronesia | Minnesota | Mississippi | Missouri | Montana Maine Call: 800.906.8754 Web: Maine Immunization Program - Immpact2 Email: immunizeme.dhhs@maine.gov Marshall Islands Web: RMI WebIZ Contact: Edlen J.
Anzures Call: 692.625.6631/7710 Email:  Maryland Call/Email: Maryland Center for Immunizations Web:  Massachusetts Call: 617.983.6800 Email: myvaxrecords@mass.gov Email: miishelpdesk@mass.gov (for healthcare organizations) Immunization Records: My Vax Records information My Vax Records:  MIIS Website:  Michigan Call: 888.243.6652 Web:  Contact:  Contact Link to: Immunization Records Email: saladab@michigan.gov QR code for the Michigan Immunization Portal page: Micronesia Call: 691.320.2619 Web: Currently Unavailable Minnesota Call: 651-201-3980 Immunization Records: Find My Immunization Record Email: health.immrecords@state.mn.us QR code for Find My Immunization Record: Mississippi Call: 800.634.9251 Web: Immunization Registry - Mississippi State Department of Health (ms.gov) Immunization Records: MyIR - Mississippi State Department of Health (ms.gov) MyIRMobile - MyIR Mobile Missouri Call: 800.219.3224 Web: Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services Immunization Records: Request for Official Immunization Records Email: immunizationrecordrequests@health.mo.gov QR code has tips for locating, maintaining, and storing Immunization records: Montana Call: 406.444.5580 Web: Montana Immunization Information System Immunization Records:  Email: hhsphsiis@mt.gov N Nebraska | Nevada | New Hampshire | New Jersey | New Mexico | New York (except New York City) | New York City | North Carolina | North Dakota Nebraska Call: 1-888-433-2510 or 402.471.0133 Web: Nebraska State Immunization Information System (NESIIS) Email: dhhs.nesiis@nebraska.gov Nevada Call: 775.684.5954 (general) Web: Nevada WebIZ Immunization Records:  Email: izit@health.nv.gov New Hampshire Call: 603.271.4482 Immunization Records: Vaccine Record Instructions Email: nhiis.support@dhhs.nh.gov New Jersey Call: 609.826.4860 Web: NJIIS Helpdesk: Submit a ticket Request an Immunization Record Request: NJIIS New Mexico Call: 833.882.6454 Web:  Immunization Records:  New York (except New York City) Call: 518.473.4437 Web: New York State Immunization Information System Email: nysiis@health.ny.gov New York City Call: 347.396.2400 Web: New York Citywide Immunization Registry Immunization Records:  Email: NYCvaxrecord@health.nyc.gov North Carolina Call: 877.873.6247 Web: North Carolina Immunization Registry Link to: Immunization Records Email: NCIRHelp@dhhs.nc.gov North Dakota Call: 701.328.3386 or 800.472.2180 Web: North Dakota Immunization Information System (NDIIS) Link to: Immunization record request Contact for immunization records: immrecord@nd.gov Email contact for NDIIS: ndiis@nd.gov O Ohio | Oklahoma | Oregon Ohio Call: 833.427.5634 Web:  Email: Immunize@odh.ohio.gov Oklahoma Call: 405.426.8580 Fax: 405.900.7612 Web: How to find a copy of your child's immunization record Immunization Records:  Email: immunize@health.ok.gov Oregon Call: 800.980.9431 Web: ALERT Immunization Information System Email: alertiis@odhsoha.oregon.gov P Palau | Pennsylvania | Philadelphia | Puerto Rico Palau Call: 680.488.7252 Web: Palau Health Email:  Pennsylvania Call: 877.774.4748 Immunization Records:  Email: RA-DHVaxRecords@pa.gov Philadelphia Web: PhilaVax Call for COVID immunization records: 215.685.5488 COVID Immunization Records: PhilaVax@phila.gov Email: philavax@phila.gov Puerto Rico Call: 787.765.2929 ext.
3341, 3329, 3353 Web: Puerto Rico Electronic Immunization System (PREIS) Email: prirhelp@salud.pr.gov R Rhode Island Rhode Island Call: 401.222.5960 Web:  COVID Immunization Records:  or  Email: ridoh.ricair@health.ri.gov S San Antonio | South Carolina | South Dakota San Antonio Call: 210.207.5071 for Bexar County residents Web: Texas Immunization Registry (ImmTrac) Email: ImmTrac2@dshs.texas.gov South Carolina Call: 800.277.4687, option 3 Web:  Email: simon@dhec.sc.gov South Dakota Call: 800.592.1861 Web: Immunization Program - SD Dept.
of Health Immunization Records: Getting an Immunization Record - SD Dept.
of Health T Tennessee | Texas Tennessee Call: 800.342.1813 Web: Tennessee Immunization Information System (TennIIS) Immunization Records: TennIIS Immunization Record Request (tn.gov) Email: TennIIS.Help@tn.gov Texas Call: 800.348.9158 Web: Texas Immunization Registry (ImmTrac2) Email: ImmTrac2@dshs.texas.gov U Utah Utah Call: 801.538.9450 Web: Utah Statewide Immunization Information System Immunization Records: USIIS - Parents & Individuals - Immunize Utah Email: usiistracking@utah.gov V Vermont | Virgin Islands | Virginia Vermont Call: 888.688.4667 Web: Vermont Immunization Registry Immunization Records: Vaccine Record Request Email: IMR@vermont.gov Virgin Islands Call: 340-776-1113 ext.
2222 Web:  Email: dohimmhelpdesk@doh.vi.gov Virginia COVID Vaccination Records Call: 877.
829.4682 Website: Vaccinate Virginia Email: viis_helpdesk@vdh.virginia.gov Non-COVID Immunization Records Call: 866.375.9795 Website: Virginia Immunization Record Request Email: viis_helpdesk@vdh.virginia.gov W Washington | West Virginia | Wisconsin | Wyoming Washington Call: 866.397.0337 Web: Washington State Immunization Information System (WAIIS) Email: WAIISRecords@doh.wa.gov Covid SmartHealth Cards:  West Virginia Call: 877.408.8930 Web: West Virginia Statewide Immunization Information System Wisconsin Call: 608.266.9691 Web: Wisconsin Immunization Registry Email: dhswirhelp@wisconsin.gov Wyoming Call: 307.777.7952 or toll free at 1.800.438.5795 (option 1) Immunization Records:  Email: wdh.immrecords@wyo.gov SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 9, 2024 IIS Policy and Legislation Overview Immunization information systems (IISs) are maintained and managed by public health entities that are funded by CDC’s 317/Vaccines for Children (VFC) cooperative agreement and serve defined jurisdictions, which can be metropolitan areas, states, or territories.
The United States currently has 64 jurisdictions, including all 50 states, a few metropolitan areas, and several current and former U.S.
territories.
Each jurisdiction must follow a combination of federal, jurisdictional, and local policies.
The policies reviewed on this webpage address four key areas: Legal authorization to operate the IIS, Vaccine recipients' consent to participate in the IIS, Vaccination provider reporting to the IIS, and Sharing data from the IIS with public health entities.
Legal Authorization Authorization policies allow jurisdictions to have and maintain IISs that contain their populations' vaccine administration data.
Consent to Participate Jurisdictional consent policies address whether the jurisdiction needs to obtain an individual’s permission to collect and share their vaccine administration data via the IIS.
Consent policies may differ for children and adults, or they may be the same.
These policies may require: Implicit consent, meaning that vaccine recipients are included in the IIS unless they choose to opt out; Explicit consent, meaning that vaccine recipients must give consent, or opt in, to be included in the IIS; or Mandatory inclusion, meaning that vaccine recipients are included in the IIS with no possibility to opt out Provider Reporting Jurisdictional reporting policies address whether vaccination providers are required to submit vaccine administration data to the IIS.
Vaccination providers can include physicians, pharmacists, or any licensed healthcare professional authorized to administer vaccines within a jurisdiction.
Reporting policies may: Mandate reporting of all immunizations for all vaccine recipients; Mandate reporting of all immunizations for only a subset of vaccine recipients (e.g., children age 18 or younger); Mandate reporting of immunizations by only certain providers (e.g., pharmacists, registered nurses); Mandate reporting of only specific immunizations (e.g., COVID-19, influenza); Mandate reporting of immunizations only under certain circumstances (e.g., a declared disaster); and/or Not mandate reporting but allow providers to report immunizations voluntarily.
Data Sharing Data sharing policies define requirements and/or restrictions for sharing immunization data from the jurisdiction’s IIS with other public health entities, such as CDC and other IISs.
Data sharing helps to consolidate immunization records for an individual (e.g., an adult who receives a vaccine outside of the jurisdiction in which they live) and to facilitate management of public health emergencies while fully complying with privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations.
Data sharing policies may include aspects such as: Requiring a data use agreement (DUA) or memorandum of understanding (MOU); Requiring that the data are only used for public health or other specific purposes (e.g., disease surveillance, IIS management); Protecting the data's confidentiality; Data sharing upon request or with approval or authorization; Allowing only deidentified data or nonidentifying summary statistics to be shared; Allowing vaccine recipients to request to limit sharing their data that are stored in the IIS; and/or Allowing data to be shared only during a declared state of emergency.
CDC completed its most recent review of jurisdictional IIS policies in 2024.
Personnel and contractors working with CDC’s Informatics and Data Analytics Branch (IDAB) engaged with all 64 jurisdictions by email to obtain and/or confirm their current IIS consent, provider reporting, and data sharing policies.
Going forward, IDAB will conduct an annual review of jurisdictional IIS policies to ensure timely updates to the data.
Privacy, confidentiality, and information security are important components of all IISs.
To better understand how jurisdictional IISs and their policies address these areas, review the IIS Functional Standards.
The following links and documents provide information on the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a federal law that protects the privacy and confidentiality of patient health information.
HIPAA Overview Understanding Health Information Privacy Health Information Privacy and Public Health IIS States and Jurisdictions SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 23, 2024 Core Data Elements For IIS Functional Standards v4.0 ABOUT Learn about the data elements that are needed by an IIS to record patient demographics and vaccination events to meet the IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
Introduction The CDC endorsed data elements represent the data elements that are needed by an IIS to record patient demographics and vaccination events to meet the IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
An IIS should store the CDC endorsed data elements listed below if the elements are sent from an external information system and meet the IIS's data quality criteria.
This list does not include all data elements external information systems such as EHRs, vital records, practice management or billing systems are expected to send to an IIS.
The list may not include all data elements an IIS produces, stores or sends.
Data elements may be derived and architectural solution may differ among IIS.
Definitions of the CDC endorsed data elements below can be found at: CDC Endorsed Data Element Definitions Patient Demographic Data Elements Date of history of vaccine preventable disease Ethnicity History of disease/titer Mother’s name: first Mother’s name: middle Mother’s name: last Mother’s name: maiden last Patient address: county of residence Patient address: city Patient address: country Patient address: state Patient address: street Patient address: zip code Patient alias name: first Patient alias name: middle Patient alias name: last Patient birth order Patient birth state Patient date of birth Patient e-mail address Patient sex Patient ID Patient ID: type IIS Patient ID Patient multiple birth indicator Patient name: first Patient name: middle Patient name: last Patient primary language Patient status indicator-provider level Patient status-jurisdiction level Patient telephone number Patient telephone number type Protection Indicator1 Protection indicator effective date1 Reminder recall status1 Reminder recall status effective date1 Race Responsible person name: first Responsible person name: middle Responsible person name: last Responsible person relationship to patient Vaccination Event Data Elements Vaccination Data Elements Contraindications/precautions Contraindications/precautions observation date Dose level eligibilityꞎ Exemptions/refusals date Exemptions/refusals reason Vaccination administration date Vaccine dose volume Vaccine dose volume units Vaccination event record type (administered/historical) Vaccine funding source (dose level public/private indicator)1ꞎꞎ Vaccine expiration date Vaccine lot number Vaccine manufacturer name Vaccine product Vaccine route of administration2 Vaccine site of administration2 IIS vaccination event ID1 Vaccination event ID1 Vaccine information statement2 Vaccine information statement given date2 Provider Data Elements Vaccine ordering provider (person) Vaccine administering provider suffix Vaccine administering provider (person) Facility Identifier Data Elements Administered at location1 Sending organization1 Responsible organization1 1Data element is new for IIS Functional Standards v4.0.
2Data element should be captured in the IIS if the IIS is used as the primary vaccination event record (e.g., mass vaccination clinic).
ꞎDefinition: the program that should pay for a given immunization, based on the characteristics of the patient and the type of vaccine administered.
Eligibility is captured for each dose.
ꞎꞎDefinition: the funding source of the vaccine administered.
Identifies the administered vaccine as publically funded, privately funded, or with other jurisdiction specific funding.
RELATED PAGES Historical Core Data Elements Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Historical Core Data Elements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All SEPTEMBER 12, 2024 Vaccine 2D Barcode: Scanning Implementation Toolkit WHAT TO KNOW The Vaccine 2D Barcode Scanning Implementation Toolkit provides a comprehensive set of resources and tools designed to support implementation in ambulatory clinics, healthcare facilities, pharmacies, and health systems, organized to assist different roles and phases of the implementation process.
Overview The Vaccine 2D Barcode Scanning Implementation Toolkit is a series of resources and tools that may support different aspects of vaccine 2D barcode scanning implementation in ambulatory clinics, health care facilities, pharmacies, and health systems.
Resources were developed for various roles of the implementation team and for various phases of implementation.
The following resources are listed in the order they may be referenced during implementation.
Navigate to the resources or tools that best fit your needs.
Deciding if vaccine 2D barcode scanning is right for your organization?
This guide is based on the findings from the 2D Vaccine Barcode Scalability Pilot.
Leading the project of vaccine 2D barcode scanning?
The Guide references other resources and tools in the Toolkit.
Performing the technical implementation of vaccine 2D barcode scanning?
Incorporating vaccine 2D barcode scanning into your workflow?
Questions or feedback Additional resources are in development.
If certain resources or tools would assist you in implementing or deciding to implement vaccine 2D barcode scanning, or if you’d like to provide feedback on the Toolkit, please contact IDAB2DBarcode@cdc.gov.
The brief describes current tools, ongoing efforts, and plans to update information related to this issue.
Training Materials Training materials currently include four videos on how to use 2D barcode scanners: features and benefits, scanning instructions, scanner maintenance, and next steps.
2D Vaccine Barcodes Chapter1: Features and Benefits 2D Vaccine Barcodes Chapter2: Scanner Instructions 2D Vaccine Barcodes Chapter3 : Scanner Maintenance 2D Vaccine Barcodes Chapter4: Next Steps Contacts National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road NE, Building 24 Mailstop A-19 Atlanta, GA 30333 iisinfo@cdc.gov ON THIS PAGE Overview Questions or feedback Briefs and Guidance Documents Training Materials Contacts SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All Vaccine Data Code Sets For Everyone SEPT.
17, 2025 ABOUT Information about vaccine code sets and mapping between code sets.
Code Sets Vaccine Code Set Latest Code Set Publication Date: 09/18/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File Prior Vaccine Code Sets Date/Release Notes: 09/12/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 09/03/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 08/15/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 07/21/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 07/10/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 05/02/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) Code Set Latest Code Set Publication Date: 09/12/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File Prior VIS Code Sets Date/Release Notes: 08/04/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 05/29/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File 02/27/2025 Download Code Set Release Notes File CVX CVX Mapped to Vaccine Groups CVX Mapped to VIS MVX Product Name Mapped to CVX/MVX NDC Crosswalk Tables Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) Lookup Table VIS to URL Table CPT Mapped to CVX Respiratory Vaccine Codes Fall Season Respiratory Vaccine Codes Fall 2025 COVID-19 Vaccine Codes and Crosswalks Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Related Codes Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Vaccine Related Codes Other COVID-19 Vaccine Related Codes Additional information More Vaccine Code Set Access Options Understanding the Rules for Creating CVX and MVX Codes Get email updates Sign up for our email newsletter below.
ON THIS PAGE Code Sets Respiratory Vaccine Codes SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All NOVEMBER 19, 2024 Functional Standards: Introduction WHAT TO KNOW The Immunization Information System (IIS) Functional Standards describe the operations, data quality, and technology needed by IISs to effectively support immunization programs, vaccination providers, and other partners and their immunization-related goals.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) works with IIS partners to update the Functional Standards to address changes in technology, business processes, and best practices in immunization services when needed.
Background The Immunization Information System (IIS) Functional Standards describe the operations, data quality, and technology needed by IISs to effectively support immunization programs, vaccination providers, and other partners and their immunization-related goals.
The Informatics and Data Analytics Branch (IDAB), formerly known as Immunization Information Systems Support Branch (IISSB), issued the first IIS Functional Standards in 1997 in collaboration with immunization program managers.
Over the years, the standards have been reviewed and revised, setting the course for future development of IISs.
To remain current with expanding IIS functionalities and the evolving health Information Technology (IT) environment, IDAB and IIS partners periodically collaborate to update the IIS Functional Standards.
The IIS Functional Standards reflect the future-state functionality an IIS should strive to attain to effectively support program and partner immunization-related goals.
Overview This sets forth the current IIS Functional Standards and the accompanying IIS programmatic goals, guidance statements, and supporting resources that guide the direction and progress of IISs.
The IIS program goals outline what is necessary to manage and safeguard public health through use of IISs.
It is essential to establish and maintain a secure, confidential IIS that prioritizes continuous improvement of data quality and actively promotes electronic data exchange between the IIS and its partners and providers.
Moreover, it is crucial to ensure that the delivery of immunization services align with the latest Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations and that users are provided proper access to data.
The IIS should be a robust system that supports the generation and utilization of data through various channels and formats, aligns with federal and jurisdictional vaccine program requirements, and strengthens response efforts for vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks and other public health emergencies.
These measures will enhance the effectiveness of immunization programs and protect community health.
The Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) is an IIS resource, updated in 2022, intended to clarify minimum expectations of IIS technology.
The baseline functional and non-functional requirements included in the RTM describe the intended behaviors of an IIS and how the IIS must operate to support the IIS Functional Standards.
The RTM is referenced as a resource throughout the IIS Functional Standards and should be utilized to identify and address gaps in IIS functions, capabilities, and technical qualities that are not specifically outlined in the IIS Functional Standards.
The Functional Standards Diagram depicts the relationship between the components of the IIS Functional Standards to illustrate how the different resources may provide ongoing guidance to jurisdictional staff maintaining and operating an IIS.
The IIS Functional Standards and the IIS Functional Standards Diagram lay out components that help assure that IISs attain a level of uniformity and consistency in supporting common clinical, programmatic, and public health immunization goals.
The Functional Standards represent a baseline set of goals that an immunization program will strive to achieve throughout the term of a cooperative agreement.
Intended audience The primary audiences for the IIS Functional Standards are jurisdictional immunization program managers, IIS managers, and staff responsible for implementing and supporting IIS operations, data quality, and IIS technology.
Additional audiences include staff that use the IIS for business operations and technology vendors that support the IIS.
Diverse audiences and partners access and utilize the IIS Functional Standards; to effectively provide each of these diverse audiences with their own tailored guidance and relevant information, the IIS Functional Standards are organized by program goals with the aligned functional standards, guidance statements, and the supporting resources that provide progressively detailed information to guide those who carry out the functions.
Overarching principles Use of the term IIS Each of the IIS Functional Standards and guidance statements in the document begins with the language, "the IIS." The use of this term can represent the information system, the program, the people, and the processes associated with an IIS.
Regulatory framework All IIS functionality, technology, and operations must meet federal and jurisdictional laws as well as applicable restrictions.
Although this is not explicitly stated throughout the document, the regulatory context should be considered for each IIS Functional Standard.
Technology and data standards Industry standards are foundational in ensuring immunization programs and information systems meet current and future programmatic goals.
The Functional Standards provide guidance based on established industry standards relative to public health technology and data collection.
Metrics and measures Established metrics and measures, developed by public health experts, with broad community input help ensure the IISs align with standards as measured through evaluation and validation.
IIS assessments measure and validate IIS functionality and data.
Through testing, discovery, IIS assessments, and data validation, IISs can measure and demonstrate functionality and system capability.
Data quality As the volume of data in an IIS grows over time, it is essential to monitor and consistently improve upon the quality of these data.
Accurate data in the IIS is the cornerstone of achieving all immunization-related goals.
Data quality is woven into the program goals, Functional Standards, guidance statements, and supporting resources to underscore the importance of incorporating the data quality attributes of availability, completion, timeliness, and validity.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures impact the implementation of functional standards in a particular jurisdiction.
Meeting some of the functional standards may necessitate the development and documentation of policies and standard operating procedures (SOP).
Organization of the document The IIS Functional Standards documentation communicates the IIS program goal, followed by the relevant functional standards and the supporting guidance statements with specific activities.
Supporting resources to meet the applicable standards are also listed.
Program goals describe how the IIS should meet the business needs of the jurisdiction it serves.
Program goals are ordered to mirror the processes required to establish and maintain a high-functioning IIS.
The goals begin with setting the foundation of establishing a safe and secure platform that has the capability to collect and store data within that platform.
Next, the goals describe sharing high-quality data with key partners and cover accessibility of data within the IIS for providers and the public.
The final goals cover preparing the IIS for public health emergencies and engaging in emerging technologies.
Functional Standards reflect the expected functionality an IIS should strive to attain to meet program goals.
Note: in this update, some Functional Standards apply to multiple program goals and may fall into multiple categories.
Guidance statements offer detailed direction that immunization program staff can use when developing systems, processes, and policies to achieve the program goals.
Supporting resources include various tools and sources of information IIS staff can use to carry out the processes described in the guidance statements.
Some guidance statements may not have supporting resources because the resources have yet to be developed.
Moreover, resources may be updated at intervals that differ from the IIS Functional Standards review cadence.
Functional Standards Diagram The IIS Functional Standards Diagram identifies components of the Functional Standards package, to include: Program Goals Functional Standards Guidance Statements Supporting Resources IPOM These components either individually or in tandem with each other, influence, drive, direct, and/or inform the IIS.
Technology and Data Standards ensure consistency of the IIS technology.
Metrics and Measures enable an IIS to evaluate and assess its progress and status in meeting the Functional Standards.
These two foundational elements, in conjunction with the Functional Standards components, promote an efficient, effective and scalable IIS.
Technology and Data Standards HL7 Standards and IG CDC Endorsed Data Elements CDSi Specifications Security Standards USCDI and ISA (Interoperability Standards Advisory) IIS Transport (SOAP) Metrics and Measures M&I Program IIS Dashboard Jurisdictional Metrics DQ Report IISAR View LargerDownload The IIS Functional Standards Diagram components either individually or in tandem with each other, influence, drive, direct, and/or inform the IIS.
Acronyms Terms in order of appearance (top to bottom, left to right) Term Acronym IPOM Immunization Program Operations Manual HL7 Health Level Seven CDSi Clinical Decision Support for Immunization SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol M&I Program Measurement and Improvement Program DQ Report Data Quality Report IISAR Immunization Information Systems Annual Report KEEP READING: IIS Acronyms and Abbreviations ON THIS PAGE Background Overview Intended audience Organization of the document Functional Standards Diagram Acronyms SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 1, 2024 Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Overview The Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) is an annual assessment conducted by CDC, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Support Branch, among the 64 immunization program awardees that receive funding under section 317b of the Public Health Service Act.
Awardees include the 50 states, 5 cities, the District of Columbia (D.C.) and 8 Territories.
Links IISAR Data Overview IISAR Data Overview IISAR Data Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Data Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports IISAR Survey Data IISAR Survey Data IIS Related Publications SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 31, 2024 Information on Vaccine Code Set Access Options PURPOSE CDC offers multiple options to access Vaccine Code Set information.
The following options are available; Viewpoint Vaccine Code Set Browser, REST Web Service, Content Cloud Portal, and Lot Number Portal.
Viewpoint Vaccine Code Set Browser The Viewpoint Vaccine Code Set Browser provides dynamic browse and search capabilities against the entire Vaccine Code Set.
Viewpoint Search viewpoint-user-guide Download Runtime REST Web Service The Runtime REST Web Service provides improved access to Vaccine Code Sets data by providing a way for development teams and other technical users to query and receive vaccine code data via API.
REST Web Service REST-user-guide Download Content Cloud Portal The Content Cloud Portal provides delivery and download of desired reports.
Access and file subscriptions are managed by registration.
Content Cloud Portal COVID-19 Vaccine Lot Number and Expiration Date Report The COVID-19 Vaccine Lot Number and Expiration Date Report is available to public health, healthcare, and pharmacy organizations located within the United States for vaccine administration, inventory, and reporting purposes.
Access is managed by registration.
Lot Number Portal ON THIS PAGE Viewpoint Vaccine Code Set Browser Runtime REST Web Service Content Cloud Portal COVID-19 Vaccine Lot Number and Expiration Date Report RELATED PAGES Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets VIS Barcode Lookup Table VIS to URL Table Fall Season Respiratory Vaccine Codes Other COVID-19 Vaccine Related Codes VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Core Data Elements SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone NOVEMBER 15, 2024 IIS Functional Standards AT A GLANCE This sets forth the current IIS Functional Standards and the accompanying IIS programmatic goals, guidance statements, and supporting resources that guide the direction and progress of IISs.
Overview The IIS Functional Standards documentation communicates the IIS program goal, followed by the relevant functional standards and the supporting guidance statements with specific activities.
Supporting resources to meet the applicable standards are also listed.
Program goals describe how the IIS should meet the business needs of the jurisdiction it serves.
Program goals are ordered to mirror the processes required to establish and maintain a high-functioning IIS.
The goals begin with setting the foundation of establishing a safe and secure platform that has the capability to collect and store data within that platform.
Next, the goals describe sharing high-quality data with key partners and cover accessibility of data within the IIS for providers and the public.
The final goals cover preparing the IIS for public health emergencies and engaging in emerging technologies.
Functional Standards reflect the expected functionality an IIS should strive to attain to meet program goals.
Note: in this update, some Functional Standards apply to multiple program goals and may fall into multiple categories.
Guidance statements offer detailed direction that immunization program staff can use when developing systems, processes, and policies to achieve the program goals.
Supporting resources include various tools and sources of information IIS staff can use to carry out the processes described in the guidance statements.
Some guidance statements may not have supporting resources because the resources have yet to be developed.
Moreover, resources may be updated at intervals that differ from the IIS Functional Standards review cadence.
IIS Functional Standards Matrix Goal A.
Establish and maintain a secure, confidential Immunization Information System.
Expand All 1.0 The IIS is physically and digitally secured in accordance with policies and industry standards for protected health information, security, and encryption.
2.0 The IIS is physically and digitally secured in accordance with industry standards for disaster avoidance, mitigation, and recovery.
3.0 The IIS defines service expectations between the program and the entities providing information technology support to ensure system availability and uninterrupted data flow.
Continuously improve IIS data quality.
Expand All 4.0 The IIS validates patient demographic and vaccination data.
Promote electronic data exchange between the IIS and its partners and providers.
Expand All 5.0 Manage interfaces for exchange and integration of data electronically between the IIS and other information systems in accordance with federal and jurisdictional standards.
Ensure the delivery of immunization services reflects current ACIP recommendations.
Expand All 6.0 The IIS supports pediatric, adolescent, and adult immunization forecasts consistent with Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations.
Ensure appropriate user access to data.
Expand All 7.0 The IIS ensures authorized users have access to patient demographic and vaccination data based on user roles and permissions.
8.0 The IIS supports authorized public access to official immunization records.
Support the generation and use of IIS data through various channels and formats.
Expand All 9.0 The IIS supports the reporting needs of federal and jurisdictional immunization programs.
10.0 The IIS supports ad-hoc queries of patient demographic and vaccination data.
11.0 The IIS supports investigation and reporting of vaccine adverse events.
12.0 The IIS supports the ability to generate coverage reports that users can access without assistance from IIS staff.
13.0 The IIS supports reminder/recall activities.
Support federal and jurisdictional vaccine program requirements.
Expand All 14.0 The IIS supports management and quality assurance functions for federal and jurisdictional vaccine programs.
15.0 The IIS supports vaccine inventory management and reconciliation according to federal and jurisdictional vaccine program requirements.
16.0 The IIS supports data exchange with the national Vaccine Tracking System (VTrckS).
Support response efforts for vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks and other public health emergencies.
Expand All 17.0 The IIS supports partner and provider onboarding and vaccine management during vaccine-preventable disease response and/or public health emergencies.
Participate in and prioritize emerging technologies and standards.
Expand All 18.0 The IIS participates in modernization initiatives and emerging technologies.
ON THIS PAGE Overview Goal A.
Establish and maintain a secure, confidential Immunization Information System.
Continuously improve IIS data quality.
Promote electronic data exchange between the IIS and its partners and providers.
Ensure the delivery of immunization services reflects current ACIP recommendations.
Ensure appropriate user access to data.
Support the generation and use of IIS data through various channels and formats.
Support federal and jurisdictional vaccine program requirements.
Support response efforts for vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks and other public health emergencies.
Participate in and prioritize emerging technologies and standards.
RELATED PAGES Functional Standards: Introduction Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 1, 2024 IISAR Survey Data AT A GLANCE View finalized Immunization Information Systems Annual Report data as well as the IISAR survey tool issued for all awardees.
Overview Immunization Information Systems Annual Report data for all awardees are provided in the tables below.
Finalized annual data as well as the IISAR survey tool issued are made available below.
IISAR data are formatted in Microsoft Excel and contain a codebook defining survey variables and a data set for the year.
IISAR survey tools provided are formatted as PDFs.
For questions about data, please contact iisinfo@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 IISAR Data Participation Rates and Maps ABOUT IIS Annual Report Table by Year of Data Participation Rates (national child and provider site tables and maps).
National Child, Adolescent, and Adult Tables and Maps Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) data for national child, adolescent, and adult participation rates are reported in MMWRs, tables, and IISAR maps.
Child, adolescent, and adult participation rates in IIS are reported for the 2022 IISAR to monitor progress toward Healthy People 2020 objectives and program initiatives.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone NOVEMBER 20, 2024 Information on 2023 IISAR Data Participation Rates AT A GLANCE Child, adolescent, and adult participation rates in IIS are reported for the 2023 IISAR to monitor progress toward Healthy People 2020 objectives and program initiatives.
For a discussion on the calculation and reporting of provider site participation rates in IIS, please see the 2010 Immunization Information System progress report in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2023 CHILD Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2023 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2023 2023 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adolescents 11-17 years with 2+ Adolescent Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adolescents aged 11-17 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, the District of Columbia, and eight territories) in 2023.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2023 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2023 2023 ADULT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adults 19+ years with 1+ Adult Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adults aged 19+ years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, the District of Columbia, and eight territories) in 2023.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2023 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2023 ON THIS PAGE 2023 CHILD Participation Table and Map 2023 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map 2023 ADULT Participation Table and Map RELATED PAGES Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) 2022 IISAR Data Participation Rates 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates Overview Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Survey Data VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Functional Standards: Introduction SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone AUGUST 1, 2024 Information on 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates AT A GLANCE Review 2021 child and adolescent IISAR data participation rates by U.S.
Overview Child, adolescent, and adult participation rates in IIS are reported for the 2020 IISAR to monitor progress toward Healthy People 2020 objectives and program initiatives.
For a discussion on the calculation and reporting of provider site participation rates in IIS, please see the 2012 Immunization Information System progress report in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
2021 CHILD Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2021 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2021 2021 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adolescents 11-17 years with 2+ Adolescent Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adolescents aged 11-17 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) 2021.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2021 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2021 2021 ADULT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adults 19+ years with 1+ Adult Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adults aged 19+ years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) in 2021.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2021 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2021 ON THIS PAGE Overview 2021 CHILD Participation Table and Map 2021 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map 2021 ADULT Participation Table and Map RELATED PAGES Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) 2022 IISAR Data Participation Rates Overview Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Survey Data 2023 IISAR Data Participation Rates VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Overview SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All Fall Season Respiratory Vaccine Codes For Everyone JULY 21, 2025 AT A GLANCE The respiratory vaccine codes and crosswalk tables for RSV, COVID-19, and Influenza are provided in the following summary tables.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Codes and Crosswalks The following table includes the RSV codes and crosswalks included in the CDC IIS Vaccine Code Sets.
Note that the CPT codes shown are not mapped to the NDC codes, but are mapped to the CVX codes shown.
CPT codes provided in the vaccine code sets are to assist with code categorizations and are not intended to represent billable codes.
Get email updates Sign up for our email newsletter below.
Download the RSV Crosswalk table Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Vaccine Codes Fall Season CVX Code CVX Description Sale Proprietary Name Sale Labeler MVX Code Unit of Sale NDC11 Unit of Use NDC11 Presentation CPT Code CPT Description 303 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), vaccine, recombinant, protein subunit RSV prefusion F, adjuvant reconstituted, 0.5 mL, preservative free Arexvy GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA SKB 58160-0848-11 58160-0723-03 VIAL, 0.5 mL, reconstituted 90679 Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine, preF, recombinant, subunit, adjuvanted, for intramuscular use 305 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), vaccine, bivalent, protein subunit RSV prefusion F, diluent reconstituted, 0.5 mL, preservative free Abrysvo Pfizer Laboratories Div Pfizer Inc PFR 00069-0344-01 00069-0344-05 00069-0344-10 00069-0207-01 VIAL, 0.5 mL, reconstituted 90678 Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine, preF, subunit, bivalent, for intramuscular use 305 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), vaccine, bivalent, protein subunit RSV prefusion F, diluent reconstituted, 0.5 mL, preservative free Abrysvo Pfizer Laboratories Div Pfizer Inc PFR 00069-2465-01 00069-2465-10 00069-2465-19 VIAL, 0.5 mL, SINGLE-DOSE 90678 Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine, preF, subunit, bivalent, for intramuscular use 326 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), mRNA, injectable, preservative free mRESVIA Moderna US, INC.
MOD 80777-0345-90 80777-0345-96 80777-0345-61 80777-0345-62 80777-0345-63 80777-0345-01 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90683 Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine, mRNA lipid nanoparticles, for intramuscular use Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Monoclonal Antibody Codes Fall Season (*) CVX Code CVX Description Sale Proprietary Name Sale Labeler MVX Code Unit of Sale NDC11 Unit of Use NDC11 Presentation CPT Code CPT Description 306 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) monoclonal antibody, IgG1κ, (nirsevimab-alip), 0.5 mL, neonates and children to 24 months BEYFORTUS Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-0575-15 49281-0575-00 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90380 Respiratory syncytial virus, monoclonal antibody, seasonal dose; 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 307 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) monoclonal antibody, IgG1κ, (nirsevimab-alip), 1 mL, neonates and children to 24 months BEYFORTUS Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-0574-15 49281-0574-88 SYRINGE, 1 mL 90381 Respiratory syncytial virus, monoclonal antibody, seasonal dose; 1 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 332 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), monoclonal antibody, IgG1κ, (clesrovimab-cfor), 0.7 mL, neonate and infant, preservative free ENFLONSIA Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC MSD 00006-5073-01 00006-5073-02 00006-5073-99 SYRINGE, 0.7 mL 90382 Respiratory syncytial virus, monoclonal antibody, seasonal dose, 0.7 mL, for intramuscular use (*) The BEYFORTUS nirsevimab and ENFLONSIA clesrovimab monoclonal antibody codes are included in the vaccine code set in a manner similar to regular vaccines to enable reporting or other program data exchange in accordance with ACIP and CDC guidelines.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Unspecified Codes CVX Code CVX Description CVX Note 314 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine, unspecified Unspecified, for historic records where the specific vaccine administered is not known 315 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) monoclonal antibody (MAB), unspecified Unspecified, for historic records where the specific RSV MAB administered is not known 304 Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), unspecified Unspecified, for historic records where it is not known if RSV vaccine or RSV MAB was administered Fall 2025 COVID-19 Vaccine Codes and Crosswalks The following table provides a preview and summary of the vaccine codes and crosswalks for Fall 2025 COVID-19 vaccines.
Note: Vaccine codes in the following table are effective upon Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and BLA licensure of COVID-19 vaccine(s).
The codes are added to the CDC full vaccine code files once FDA DailyMed and FDA drug file listings are published and accessible.
Additional code details and field values are included in the full vaccine code sets published.
Download the COVID-19 Vaccine Code Crosswalk table Manufacturer (MVX) Product Label Tradename CVX Code CVX Term Description CVX Short Description NDC Virus Strain UoS NDC10 UoS NDC11 Packaging UoU NDC10 UoU NDC11 Age Cohort(1) Presentation CPT Code CPT Description Pfizer (PFR) COMIRNATY (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA, 2025-2026 Formula), no freeze formulation 309 SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19) vaccine, mRNA, spike protein, LNP, preservative free, tris-sucrose, 30 mcg/0.3 mL dose COVID-19, mRNA, LNP-S, PF, tris-sucrose, 30 mcg/0.3 mL SARS-CoV-2 virus strain Omicron LP.8.1 0069-2528-10 00069-2528-10 CARTON, 10 PRE-FILLED GLASS SYRINGES 0069-2528-01 00069-2528-01 Ages 12 years and older.
Emergency Use Authorizations (EUA) for the 2024 Fall season vaccines have been revoked by the FDA effective 08/27/2025.
(1) FDA approved age cohort for each vaccine formulation is shown, subject to eligibility guidance from FDA and CDC.
Other COVID-19 Vaccine Related Codes and Links FDA has revoked all COVID-19 EUA vaccine authorizations effective 08/27/2025.
EUA Recipient and Caregiver Fact Sheet URLs and Document Codes in 2D Barcodes are no longer active.
Beginning with the FDA approval of Fall 2025 COVID-19 vaccines under BLA effective 08/27/2025, vaccine NDCs, lot numbers, expiration dates, and other relational information will no longer be maintained in the CDC COVID-19 Vaccine Lot Number and Expiration Date Report used to communicate this information under EUA.
Registered users may continue to access this COVID-19 vaccine lot number and expiration date relational information provided to CDC by the vaccine manufacturers for historic immunization recordkeeping purposes.
2025/2026 Seasonal Influenza Codes and Crosswalk This format includes all seasonal influenza vaccines for the season in a single Excel crosswalk table that provides the CVX, MVX, NDC Unit of Sale, NDC Unit of Use, and CPT (*) codes for each vaccine.
(*) Please note that the CPT codes shown for each vaccine crosswalk are not mapped to the NDC codes, but are mapped to the CVX codes shown.
These are reference CPT codes for vaccine categorization and are not intended to represent billable codes.
Download the Seasonal Influenza Crosswalk table Influenza Vaccines for Season 2025/2026 (Northern Hemisphere) CVX Code CVX Short Description CVX Long Name Sale Proprietary Name Sale Labeler MVX Code Sale Unit (UoS) NDC10 NDC11 Use Unit (UoU) NDC10 NDC11 Presentation CPT Code CPT Description 141 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, preservative Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, contains preservative Afluria Seqirus PTY LTD.
SEQ 33332-125-10 33332-0125-10 33332-125-11 33332-0125-11 VIAL, 5 mL, MULTI-DOSE 90658 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 140 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, PF Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, preservative free Afluria Seqirus PTY LTD.
SEQ 33332-025-03 33332-0025-03 33332-025-04 33332-0025-04 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90656 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, preservative free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 168 Influenza, adjuvanted, trivalent, PF Influenza, adjuvanted, inactivated, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLUAD Seqirus, Inc.
SEQ 70461-025-03 70461-0025-03 70461-025-04 70461-0025-04 SYRINGE, 0.5mL 90653 Influenza vaccine, inactivated (IIV), subunit, adjuvanted, for intramuscular use 140 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, PF Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLUARIX GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA SKB 58160-912-52 58160-0912-52 58160-912-41 58160-0912-41 SYRINGE, 0.5mL 90656 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, preservative free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 155 Influenza, recombinant, trivalent, PF Influenza, recombinant, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLUBLOK TRIVALENT NORTHERN HEMISPHERE Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-725-10 49281-0725-10 49281-725-88 49281-0725-88 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90673 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (RIV3), derived from recombinant DNA, hemagglutinin (HA) protein only, preservative and antibiotic free, for intramuscular use 153 Influenza, MDCK, trivalent, PF Influenza, Madin Darby Canine Kidney, subunit, trivalent, injectable, preservative free Flucelvax Seqirus Inc.
SEQ 70461-655-03 70461-0655-03 70461-655-04 70461-0655-04 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90661 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (ccIIV3), derived from cell cultures, subunit, antibiotic free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 320 Influenza, MDCK, trivalent, preservative Influenza, Madin Darby Canine Kidney, subunit, trivalent, injectable, contains preservative Flucelvax Seqirus Inc.
SEQ 70461-555-10 70461-0555-10 70461-555-11 70461-0555-11 VIAL, 5 mL, MULTI-DOSE 90661 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (ccIIV3), derived from cell cultures, subunit, antibiotic free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 140 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, PF Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLULAVAL ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec IDB 19515-904-52 19515-0904-52 19515-904-41 19515-0904-41 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90656 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, preservative free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 135 Influenza, high-dose, trivalent, PF Influenza, high-dose, split virus, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLUZONE HIGH DOSE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-125-65 49281-0125-65 49281-125-88 49281-0125-88 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90662 Influenza virus vaccine (IIV), split virus, preservative free, enhanced immunogenicity via increased antigen content, for intramuscular use 141 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, preservative Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, contains preservative FLUZONE TRIVALENT NORTHERN HEMISPHERE Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-643-15 49281-0643-15 49281-643-78 49281-0643-78 VIAL, 5 mL, MULTI-DOSE 90658 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 140 Influenza, split virus, trivalent, PF Influenza, split virus, trivalent, injectable, preservative free FLUZONE TRIVALENT NORTHERN HEMISPHERE Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-425-50 49281-0425-50 49281-425-88 49281-0425-88 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL 90656 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, preservative free, 0.5 mL dosage, for intramuscular use 111 Influenza, live, trivalent, intranasal, PF Influenza, live, trivalent, intranasal, preservative free FluMist trivalent MedImmune, Inc.
(AstraZeneca) MED 66019-112-10 66019-0112-10 66019-112-00 66019-0112-00 CARTON OF 10 APPLICATOR, 0.2 mL 90660 Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent, live (LAIV3), for intranasal use 333 Influenza, live, trivalent, intranasal, self/caregiver admin, PF Influenza, live, trivalent, intranasal, self or caregiver administered, preservative free FluMist trivalent, (self/caregiver administered) MedImmune, Inc.
(AstraZeneca) MED (*) 66019-112-51 66019-0112-51 (*) 66019-112-51 66019-0112-51 CARTON OF 1 APPLICATOR, 0.2 mL (*) NA (*) NA (*) The Unit of Use (UoU) for FluMist self or caregiver administered vaccine is listed with the same NDC code as the Unit of Sale (UoS) NDC.
This allows mapping to a different CVX code for self or caregiver administered FluMist vaccine.
A CPT code is not applicable for the self or caregiver NDC billing.
Southern Hemisphere 2025 Influenza Season CVX Code CVX Short Description CVX Long Name Sale Proprietary Name Sale Labeler MVX Code Sale Unit (UoS) NDC10 NDC11 Use Unit (UoU) NDC10 NDC11 Presentation CPT Code CPT Description 331 influenza, Southern Hemisphere, preservative free Influenza, seasonal, Southern Hemisphere, trivalent, 0.5 mL dose, preservative free FLUZONE TRIVALENT SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE Sanofi Pasteur Inc.
PMC 49281-0325-50 49281-0325-88 SYRINGE, 0.5 mL NA NA ON THIS PAGE Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Codes and Crosswalks Fall 2025 COVID-19 Vaccine Codes and Crosswalks Other COVID-19 Vaccine Related Codes and Links 2025/2026 Seasonal Influenza Codes and Crosswalk Other COVID-19 Vaccine Related Codes SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems — United States, 2012 Weekly December 13, 2013 / 62(49);1005-1008 Immunization information systems (IIS) are confidential, computerized, population-based systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from vaccination providers that can be used in designing and sustaining effective immunization strategies (1,2).
To monitor progress toward achieving IIS program goals, CDC annually surveys immunization program grantees using the IIS Annual Report (IISAR).
Results from the 2012 IISAR, completed by 54 of 56 grantees, indicate that 86% (19.5 million) of U.S.
adults participated in IIS.
Eight of 12 minimum functional standards for IIS published by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) (3,4) have been met by ≥90% of grantees.
During 2011–2012, progress was also made in meeting three additional functional standards, including the presence of core data element fields, timeliness of vaccine records, and Health Level 7 (HL7) messaging, and will be monitored in new functional standards for IIS published in 2013 (5).
Several new and ongoing initiatives, including interoperability between IIS and electronic health records (i.e., ensuring systems can work together and exchange information), the use of IIS to support vaccine ordering and inventory management, the use of two-dimensional barcodes to record vaccination information (1), and collaboration with pharmacies, federal agencies, and other adult vaccination providers, will support further progress in meeting functional standards and enhance reporting of adult vaccinations to IIS.
DC did not report and New Hampshire was not eligible because it did not have an IIS in 2012.
The self-administered survey asked about participation in IIS, data quality indicators, and IIS functionality (e.g., interoperability with electronic health records).
Adult participation was defined as having one or more vaccinations administered to adults aged ≥19 years documented in an IIS.
Participation was calculated by dividing the number of children or adults in an IIS who met their age group and vaccination criteria by the 2012 U.S.
Census estimate of the same age group in the grantee's geographic area (6).
National estimates were calculated by summing the number of children or adults reported to be participating and dividing by the U.S.
Census estimate for the total population for that age group.
Nationally, 19.5 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 to 86% in 2012 (1).
Nationally, 57.8 million U.S.
adults aged ≥19 years (24.5%) participated in an IIS in 2012 (Figure 2).
Two IIS did not collect immunization information for adults.
Adult participation in IIS among the remaining 52 grantees responding in 2012 ranged from 0.5% (Houston) to 85.4% (Minnesota).
Functional Standards for IIS Functional standards for IIS were developed in 2001 and revised in 2007.
The standards have been approved by NVAC (3,4) for assessing IIS progress in meeting minimum functionalities.
Substantial progress has been made in meeting these functional standards since inception, and in 2012, eight of 12 functional standards had been met by ≥90% of grantees (Figure 3).
Increases were observed during 2011–2012 in the percentage of grantees meeting three of the four remaining functional standards.
The percentage of grantees meeting functional standard (FS) 1 (i.e., reporting the presence of fields in their IIS for 18 required NVAC core data elements) increased from 57% in 2011 to 65% in 2012.
Completeness of core data elements has been reported on previously (1).
The percentage of grantees meeting FS 4 (i.e., percentage of grantees who reported receiving and processing ≥70% of vaccine and other immunization encounter information within 30 days of vaccine administration) increased from 63% in 2011 to 76% in 2012.
The percentage of grantees meeting FS 7 (i.e., meeting basic HL 7 functionality§) increased from 58% in 2011 to 77% in 2012.
The percentage of grantees meeting more advanced HL7 functionality¶ increased from 35% in 2011 to 37% in 2012.
In 2012, 37% (19) of grantees were sending and receiving any HL7 v.2.5.1 messages, an increase from 17.3% (9) of grantees in 2011.
The percentage of grantees meeting FS 2 (i.e., reporting the establishment of a birth record within an average time of ≤6 weeks) decreased from 85% in 2011 to 84% in 2012.
This slight decline occurred because three grantees who previously met the functional standard in 2011 reported a decrease in timeliness in 2012 resulting from their acceptance of larger amounts of data, which slowed processing times; however, two grantees achieved the functional standard in 2012 who had not previously.
Reported by Cristina Cardemil, MD, Terence Ng, MPH, Laura Pabst, MPH, Immunization Svcs Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Cristina Cardemil, ccardemil@cdc.gov, 404-639-8241.
Editorial Note Child participation in IIS increased steadily from 2006 to 2012, reaching 86%; adult participation, however, only reached 25% in 2012.
Eight of 12 IIS functional standards were met by ≥90% of grantees in 2012.
Increases in grantees meeting minimum functional standards for IIS data quality and interoperability, including the presence of core data element fields, timeliness for vaccination records, and HL7 messaging functionality, also have been demonstrated from 2011 to 2012, although challenges remain for IIS to reach their full potential in these areas, and for improving the timeliness of birth records in IIS.
Historically, the primary focus of IIS and immunization programs has been pediatric populations.
This focus was warranted because of the increasing complexity of the routine pediatric immunization schedule, mobility of children among different providers resulting in vaccination record scattering (8) that makes tracking and catch-up immunization challenging, and the role of the IIS in supporting the Vaccines for Children program through ordering and inventory management, report generation, and vaccine accountability.
Nevertheless, interest is growing in ensuring that adult populations are included and vaccinations tracked in IIS.
Adults are vaccinated by multiple and diverse providers, beyond traditional health-care providers (e.g., pharmacies, retail clinics, and subspecialists), and consolidated adult vaccination records maintained by IIS could play an instrumental role in providing clinical point-of-care support and population-level immunization coverage, particularly in special circumstances such as tracking doses administered during an influenza pandemic.
Currently, 53 of 56 immunization program grantees have IIS with lifespan systems, yet adult participation in IIS remains low.
Challenges to increase adult participation in IIS include 1) identifying and enrolling the diverse providers that serve adults, 2) a lack of adult immunization reporting mandates in many grantees' jurisdictions, and 3) competing priorities for state and local immunization programs.
To support increased adult provider participation in IIS, CDC is supporting several new initiatives, including partnering with the Veterans Administration, the Indian Health Service, and federal occupational health clinics; providing supplemental funding to IIS Sentinel Sites to support adult provider enrollment and completeness of adult data in IIS as part of pandemic preparedness; and collaborating with the American Immunization Registry Association to better understand barriers and opportunities for pharmacy reporting to IIS.
CDC also has initiated the Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) project for the adult vaccine schedule, which will provide a single, authoritative, software-independent foundation for development and maintenance of evaluation and forecast systems (9).** By capturing Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations for adult vaccination in an unambiguous manner, it will improve the uniform representation of vaccination decision guidelines, and the ability to automate vaccine evaluation and forecasting (9).
CDSi for the childhood schedule was completed in October 2012 and has already proven successful in clarifying ACIP recommendations and designing new and existing computer systems.
In addition to capturing the complete population of children and adults within each IIS jurisdiction, IIS must maintain and enhance system functionality to ensure that data quality is high, protect the confidentiality of data, and serve multiple stakeholders.
Although IIS have made great strides in implementing functional standards, progress can still be made in areas such as timeliness of record submission, completeness of core data elements, and HL7 functionality.
Several ongoing and new initiatives are expected to support these functional standards, including the use of IIS to support vaccine ordering and inventory management, the use of two-dimensional barcodes to record vaccination information, and interoperability between IIS and electronic health records (1).
Implementation of stage 2 meaningful use criteria for the Medicare and Medicaid electronic health record incentive program (10), emphasizing use of HL7 version 2.5.1 and promotion of successful, ongoing submission from providers to IIS, is expected to increase child and adult participation in IIS and improve data quality in IIS, including completeness and timeliness of records.
Stage 2 implementation was scheduled to launch in October 2013 for hospitals and January 2014 for providers.
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, although CDC provides guidance to grantees to validate IISAR responses, data are self-reported and self-validated, which might result in overestimation or underestimation of participation rates.
Second, because two of the 56 grantees did not report data during the period studied, the percentage of grantees meeting each of the functional standards might be higher or lower than calculated.
New functional standards for IIS for 2013–2017 have been developed by CDC through a consensus process involving input from IIS managers and technical experts nationwide (5).
Those standards are intended to lay a framework for the development of IIS through 2017, and supersede the minimum functional standards for registries adopted by NVAC in 2001.
These new functional standards encompass areas within the old functional standards where progress is still being achieved, including timeliness of records submission, completion of core data elements, and HL7 interoperability standards.
They also include new areas, such as supporting the Vaccines for Children program and state vaccine purchase programs through vaccine inventory functions and capture of program eligibility at the dose-level, and enhanced data quality through patient- and vaccine-level de-duplication.
Grantees meeting and exceeding these new functional standards will lead the way in realizing and demonstrating the full potential of IIS.
References CDC.
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2011.
MMWR 2013;62:48–51.
Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Universally recommended vaccinations: immunization information systems.
In: Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Atlanta, GA: Community Preventive Services Task Force; 2010.
Available at 
National Immunization Program Technical Working Group.
2001 minimum functional standards for registries.
Atlanta, GA: National Immunization Program Technical Working Group; 2011.
Available at 
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Immunization information systems: National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) progress report.
Atlanta, GA: National Vaccine Advisory Committee; 2007.
Available at 
Immunization information system functional standards, 2013–2017.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2012.
Available at 
US Census Bureau.
State single year of age and sex population estimates: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2012–resident.
Washington, DC: US Census Bureau; 2012.
Available at 
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2020.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010.
Available at 
Smith PJ, Stevenson J.
Racial/ethnic disparities in vaccination coverage by 19 months of age: an evaluation of the impact of missing data resulting from record scattering.
Stat Med 2008;27:4107–18.
Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi): logic specification for ACIP.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2013.
Available at 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
45 CFR Part 170.
Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Electronic Health Record Incentive Program—stage 2.
Federal Register 2012;77:53968–4162.
* Chicago, Illinois; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Houston, Texas; and San Antonio, Texas.
† Additional information available at 
§ HL7 is the industry standard to exchange patient information electronically between IIS and electronic medical record systems.
Basic HL7 functionality is defined as receiving VXU and sending ACK message types for either HL7 v.2.3.1 or v.2.5.1.
¶ Advanced HL7 functionality is defined as the percentage of grantees who received VXQ and sent VXR and QCK message types for v.2.3.1 and received QBP and sent RSP message types for v.2.5.1.
** Evaluation describes the process of determining if a vaccination has been given at the right time, in the right amount, and with the right product.
Forecasting involves recommending when the next dose of a vaccine should be given, based on a patient's history and the guidelines described in the immunization schedule.
What is already known on this topic?
In 2011, 84% of U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2012, 86% of U.S.
Adult participation (25%) in IIS lags behind.
Eight of 12 minimum functional standards for IIS published by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee have been met by ≥90% grantees, but gaps still exist in meeting Health Level 7 (HL7) interoperability and some data quality standards.
What are the implications for public health practice?
To realize the full benefits of IIS, progress is needed to reach lifespan participation in IIS, advanced bidirectional HL7 messaging between IIS and electronic health records, and improved data quality in IIS.
Initiatives designed to increase adult participation in IIS, and promote HL7 messaging and electronic health records use among providers, are expected to support progress in these areas.
National child participation = 86%.
† Chicago, Illinois; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Houston, Texas; and San Antonio, Texas.
Percentage of adults aged ≥19 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS)* — United States, five cities,† and the District of Columbia (DC), 2012 * Adult participation is defined as having one or more vaccinations administered to adults aged ≥19 years documented in an IIS.
National adult participation = 25%.
† Chicago, Illinois; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Houston, Texas; and San Antonio, Texas.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the percentage of adults aged ≥19 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the 50 United States, five cities, and the District of Columbia during 2012.
Nationally, 57.8 million U.S.
adults aged ≥19 years (24.5%) participated in an IIS in 2012.
Percentage of immunization program grantees meeting National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) functional standards (FS) for immunization information systems (IIS),* United States, 2011 and 2012 * The standards include FS1: presence of a field for data collection of all 18 required NVAC core data elements; FS2: establishment of a newborn birth record within an average time of 6 weeks or less; FS3: ability to access patients' immunization information from the IIS during a patient encounter; FS4: receiving and processing ≥70% of vaccine and other immunization encounter information within 30 days of vaccine administration; FS5: implementation of a written confidentiality policy; FS6: implementation of a written security policy; FS7: meeting basic Health Level 7 messaging functionality; FS8: presence of forecasting algorithm; FS9: ability to run reminder and recall notifications; FS10: ability to produce immunization coverage reports by providers, age groups, and geographic areas upon request; FS11: ability to produce official immunization records; and FS12: presence of a patient-level de-duplication algorithm.
Additional information available at 
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the percentage of U.S.
immunization program grantees meeting National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) functional standards for immunization information systems (IIS) during 2011–2012.
Functional standards for IIS were developed in 2001 and revised in 2007.
The standards have been approved by NVAC for assessing IIS progress in meeting minimum function¬alities.
Substantial progress has been made in meeting these functional standards since inception, and in 2012, eight of 12 functional standards had been met by ≥90% of grantees.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 Information on 2022 IISAR Data Participation Rates AT A GLANCE Child, adolescent, and adult participation rates in IIS are reported for the 2022 IISAR to monitor progress toward Healthy People 2020 objectives and program initiatives.
For a discussion on the calculation and reporting of provider site participation rates in IIS, please see the 2012 Immunization Information System progress report in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
2022 CHILD Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 2022 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adolescents 11-17 years with 2+ Adolescent Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adolescents aged 11-17 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) 2022.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 2022 ADULT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adults 19+ years with 1+ Adult Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adults aged 19+ years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) in 2022.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 ON THIS PAGE 2022 CHILD Participation Table and Map 2022 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map 2022 ADULT Participation Table and Map RELATED PAGES Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates Overview Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Survey Data 2023 IISAR Data Participation Rates VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Skip directly to On This Page An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Immunization Information Systems (IIS) EXPLORE TOPICS SEARCH For Everyone About IIS Immunization (IZ) Gateway Vaccine 2D Barcodes CDC IIS Activities Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) Functional Standards: Introduction Information on Vaccine Data Code Sets Core Data Elements Information on IIS Policy and Legislation Contacts for IIS Immunization Records IIS Training Resources Clinical Decision Support for Immunization (CDSi) IIS Technical Guidance IIS Resources and Reference Materials VIEW ALL View All For Everyone JULY 10, 2024 Information on 2022 IISAR Data Participation Rates AT A GLANCE Child, adolescent, and adult participation rates in IIS are reported for the 2022 IISAR to monitor progress toward Healthy People 2020 objectives and program initiatives.
For a discussion on the calculation and reporting of provider site participation rates in IIS, please see the 2012 Immunization Information System progress report in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
2022 CHILD Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 2022 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adolescents 11-17 years with 2+ Adolescent Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adolescents aged 11-17 years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) 2022.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 2022 ADULT Participation Table and Map Percentage of U.S.
Adults 19+ years with 1+ Adult Immunizations in IIS Percentage of adults aged 19+ years participating in an immunization information system (IIS) in the United States (including all 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, and eight territories) in 2022.
Reported annual fluctuations in child participation may be due to programmatic and/or technical changes to the immunization information system.
The denominator used to calculate child participation numbers are drawn from the 2022 Census estimates for each state and city.
Source: Immunization Information System Annual Report, CY2022 ON THIS PAGE 2022 CHILD Participation Table and Map 2022 ADOLESCENT Participation Table and Map 2022 ADULT Participation Table and Map RELATED PAGES Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates Overview Participation Rates and Maps IISAR Survey Data 2023 IISAR Data Participation Rates VIEW ALL Immunization Information Systems (IIS) 2021 IISAR Data Participation Rates SOURCES PRINT SHARE Immunization Information Systems (IIS) Immunization information systems (IIS) help providers, families, and public health officials by consolidating immunization information into one reliable source.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems — United States, 2011 Weekly January 25, 2013 / 62(03);48-51 Immunization information systems (IIS) are confidential, computerized, population-based systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from vaccination providers and provide important tools for designing and sustaining effective immunization strategies (1,2).
The National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) has published goals for IIS, including required and optional core data elements for which IIS should collect information (4,5).
Two of the required core data elements are vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number.
To monitor progress toward achieving these and other program goals, CDC annually surveys 56 immunization program grantees using the IIS Annual Report (IISAR).
Results from the 2011 IISAR (completed by 54 grantees) indicate that 84% (19.2 million) of U.S.
Grantees reported that an average of 63% of vaccination records for these children contained data in the field for vaccine manufacturer and 60% contained data in the field for lot number.
A new project under way to capture vaccine product information, expiration date, and lot number on two-dimensional (2D) barcodes on vaccine vials might increase completeness, accuracy, and availability of these data elements in patient medical records and IIS, which in turn might enhance vaccine safety and support vaccine inventory management.
Of the 56 immunization program grantees (50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia), 2011 IISAR data† were available for 54 grantees.
Connecticut did not report, and New Hampshire was not eligible because it did not have an IIS in 2011.
The self-administered survey asked about participation in IIS, data quality indicators, and IIS functionality (e.g., interoperability with electronic health records, vaccine inventory management, and use of IIS data).
Child Participation in IIS Child participation was defined as having two or more vaccinations documented in an IIS.
Census estimate for the number of children of the same age group in the grantee's geographic area (6).
Demographic data in IIS initially are obtained from birth certificates and birth hospital records, which often also contain records of the birth dose of hepatitis B vaccine.
Defining participation in IIS as having ≥2 recorded vaccine doses makes it highly likely that the child received at least one vaccination from a provider other than the birth hospital who participates in IIS.
Nationally, 19.2 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 (1) to 84% in 2011.
An additional 13 (24%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94% (Figure 1).
Core Data Elements Each year, CDC collects IISAR information on the percentage of grantees meeting 12 NVAC functional standards for IIS (4,5).
The initial standards were developed in 2001; NVAC revised and published new IIS functional standards in 2007.
Progress in meeting functional standard 1, electronically store data on NVAC-required core data elements,§ is reported here.
Three of the 12 core data elements contain multiple components for a total of 18 data elements.
These data are used to calculate an unweighted U.S.
national average for field completeness.
Among the 54 grantees reporting in 2011, 32 (59%) included a field for each of the 18 data elements in their IIS.
The most common data elements not included in IIS were birth order for multiple births only (nine grantees), mother's middle name (eight grantees), and birth country (six grantees).
Vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number are two data elements recognized for their importance in IIS for vaccine inventory management and their potential to increase patient safety through identification of persons who were administered recalled vaccine and reporting of vaccine-associated adverse events.
The proportion of IIS including fields for these data elements in IIS has been high.
In 2006, 89% of IIS contained a field for recording vaccine manufacturer and 88% contained a field for lot number; these increased in 2011 to 98% and 100%, respectively.
The completeness of data in these fields has increased from 37% for both in 2006 to 63% for vaccine manufacturer and 60% for lot number in 2011 (Figure 3).
Reported by Cristina Cardemil, MD, Laura Pabst, MPH, Ken Gerlach, MPH, Immunization Services Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Cristina Cardemil, ccardemil@cdc.gov, 404-639-8241.
Editorial Note Child participation in IIS and completeness of data for vaccine manufacturer and lot number in IIS increased steadily from 2006 to 2011.
Maximal child participation and complete records are needed to fully realize the benefits of IIS, which include clinical decision support, vaccination coverage reports, support for vaccine-preventable disease outbreak response, vaccine inventory management, and the ability to generate reminder and recall messages.
Developing and promoting these beneficial tools that IIS offer to providers can encourage provider participation in IIS.
If provider participation in IIS increases, child participation increases.
Several ongoing initiatives are expected to increase participation in IIS and improve the completeness and accuracy of data contained in IIS, including enhanced interoperability between IIS and electronic health records (EHRs), the use of IIS to interface with VTrckS, CDC's vaccine tracking system for publicly purchased vaccine, and the use of 2D barcodes to facilitate recording vaccine information in EHRs and IIS.
VTrcks and interoperability initiatives have been reported on previously (1,7).
The 2D barcode project is an additional initiative that might help to address the completeness and accuracy of these fields.
In September 2011, CDC initiated a 2D vaccine barcode pilot project** to assess the impact and best practices of 2D barcoded vaccines on vaccine administration and inventory management.
This pilot project also will assess the ability of 2D barcoding technology to improve the completeness and accuracy of electronically stored immunization information.
Printed 2D barcodes encode more information in a smaller area than the space needed for linear barcodes, meaning that all vaccine product data can be encoded into a symbol compact enough to appear on a single-dose vial or syringe.
Although the linear barcode could hold the information, space constraints on the vial or syringe make the use of the linear barcode unrealistic.
A 2D barcode will contain a Global Trade Identification Number that uniquely identifies the product and manufacturer, the lot expiration date, and the lot number.
Pilot participants include 10 CDC immunization program grantees, 220 immunization providers (public and private), and two vaccine manufacturers.
Documenting vaccine product information and lot number is required by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends documenting vaccine expiration date to improve patient safety.
To report vaccine product data to an IIS, providers must either type them into an EHR, which transmits data to the IIS, or type the information into the IIS directly.
In addition to recording data electronically in an EHR or IIS, some providers also record these data by hand in paper records.
Recording information by hand and duplication of entries takes time and resources and increases the likelihood of data entry errors.
Use of a 2D barcode on vaccines could allow for rapid, complete, and accurate capture of these vaccine product data by a barcode scanner that could transfer the information to EHRs and IIS.
A CDC assessment of the impact of 2D barcode for vaccine production, clinical documentation, and public health reporting and tracking analyzed the expected costs and benefits of barcode use by immunization providers.
The assessment found that for every $1 expended, $2.70–$2.80 in benefits were expected to accrue from 2011 through 2023 (8).
Net benefits to society were forecast to be $326 million to $349 million.
Among surveyed primary-care providers who did not report immunizations to IIS currently, 63% indicated they would be more likely to do so if the 2D barcode were available.
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, data from the IISAR were self-reported and self-validated.
As with other technological advances, adoption of 2D barcode technology for recording vaccination information has the long-term potential to improve vaccine safety monitoring and inventory management, reduce staff time spent manually capturing vaccine data, decrease costs for vaccine stakeholders, and enhance the completeness and accuracy of vaccination information in electronic medical records and IIS.
The barcode effort is one of many recent advances in health-care technology that should have the added benefit of reducing the reporting burden on providers while improving the quality of data in IIS.
These advances and the resulting increase in data quality might lead to increased vaccine provider, and therefore child, participation in IIS, and achievement of the Healthy People 2020 objective and NVAC goals.
References CDC.
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2010.
MMWR 2012;61:464–7.
Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Universally recommended vaccinations: immunization information systems.
In: Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Atlanta, GA: Community Preventive Services Task Force; 2010.
Available at 
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2020.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010.
Available at 
National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group.
2001 minimum functional standards for registries.
Atlanta, GA: National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group; 2011.
Available at 
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Immunization information systems: National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) progress report.
Atlanta, GA: National Vaccine Advisory Committee; 2007.
Available at 
US Census Bureau.
State single year of age and sex population estimates: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2011—resident.
Washington, DC: US Census Bureau; 2011.
Available at 
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2009.
MMWR 2011;60:10–2.
Impact of a two-dimensional barcode for vaccine production, clinical documentation, and public health reporting and tracking: final report; 2012.
Available at  .
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
† Additional information available at 
§ Required core data elements include the patient's name (first, middle, last), sex, race, ethnicity, birth date, birth state/country, birth order, mother's name (first, middle, last, maiden), vaccine type, vaccine manufacturer, vaccination date, vaccine lot number.
Data on birth order is not reported here because field completeness can only be assessed if a person is part of a multiple birth, which is a relatively infrequent event.
¶ IIS contain one record per child and a field for each data element pertaining to a patient's and mother's demographic information.
Each child has multiple vaccination records, and each of these vaccination records has an associated field for each data element pertaining to that vaccination (e.g., manufacturer, date, and lot number).
** Additional information available at  and 
What is already known on this topic?
In 2010, 82% of the 18.8 million U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2011, 84% (19.2 million) of U.S.
Among IIS grantees, completeness of data for vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number has increased since 2006, but remained suboptimal at 63% and 60%, respectively, in 2011.
In 2011, CDC initiated a vaccine barcoding pilot project to determine best practices for labeling and tracking vaccines using 2D barcodes that include vaccine product information, lot number, and expiration date.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Widespread adoption of 2D vaccine barcoding among manufacturers and providers has the potential to increase completeness and accuracy of IIS data and improve patient safety.
More complete and accurate data elements might provide an additional incentive for providers to participate in IIS, which in turn can increase child participation in IIS.
* Defined as having two or more vaccinations recorded in the IIS.
† Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
cities, and the District of Columbia during 2011.
Nationally, 19.2 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 to 84% in 2011.
An additional 13 (24%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94%.
Among the 54 grantees reporting in 2011, 32 (59%) included a field for each of the 18 data elements in their immunization information systems (IIS).
The most common data elements not included in IIS were birth order for multiple births only (nine grantees), mother's middle name (eight grantees), and birth country (six grantees).
In 2006, 89% of IIS contained a field for recording vac¬cine manufacturer and 88% contained a field for lot number; these increased in 2011 to 98% and 100%, respectively.
The completeness of these fields has increased from 37% for both in 2006 to 63% for vaccine manufacturer and 60% for lot number in 2011.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems — United States, 2011 Weekly January 25, 2013 / 62(03);48-51 Immunization information systems (IIS) are confidential, computerized, population-based systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from vaccination providers and provide important tools for designing and sustaining effective immunization strategies (1,2).
The National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) has published goals for IIS, including required and optional core data elements for which IIS should collect information (4,5).
Two of the required core data elements are vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number.
To monitor progress toward achieving these and other program goals, CDC annually surveys 56 immunization program grantees using the IIS Annual Report (IISAR).
Results from the 2011 IISAR (completed by 54 grantees) indicate that 84% (19.2 million) of U.S.
Grantees reported that an average of 63% of vaccination records for these children contained data in the field for vaccine manufacturer and 60% contained data in the field for lot number.
A new project under way to capture vaccine product information, expiration date, and lot number on two-dimensional (2D) barcodes on vaccine vials might increase completeness, accuracy, and availability of these data elements in patient medical records and IIS, which in turn might enhance vaccine safety and support vaccine inventory management.
Of the 56 immunization program grantees (50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia), 2011 IISAR data† were available for 54 grantees.
Connecticut did not report, and New Hampshire was not eligible because it did not have an IIS in 2011.
The self-administered survey asked about participation in IIS, data quality indicators, and IIS functionality (e.g., interoperability with electronic health records, vaccine inventory management, and use of IIS data).
Child Participation in IIS Child participation was defined as having two or more vaccinations documented in an IIS.
Census estimate for the number of children of the same age group in the grantee's geographic area (6).
Demographic data in IIS initially are obtained from birth certificates and birth hospital records, which often also contain records of the birth dose of hepatitis B vaccine.
Defining participation in IIS as having ≥2 recorded vaccine doses makes it highly likely that the child received at least one vaccination from a provider other than the birth hospital who participates in IIS.
Nationally, 19.2 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 (1) to 84% in 2011.
An additional 13 (24%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94% (Figure 1).
Core Data Elements Each year, CDC collects IISAR information on the percentage of grantees meeting 12 NVAC functional standards for IIS (4,5).
The initial standards were developed in 2001; NVAC revised and published new IIS functional standards in 2007.
Progress in meeting functional standard 1, electronically store data on NVAC-required core data elements,§ is reported here.
Three of the 12 core data elements contain multiple components for a total of 18 data elements.
These data are used to calculate an unweighted U.S.
national average for field completeness.
Among the 54 grantees reporting in 2011, 32 (59%) included a field for each of the 18 data elements in their IIS.
The most common data elements not included in IIS were birth order for multiple births only (nine grantees), mother's middle name (eight grantees), and birth country (six grantees).
Vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number are two data elements recognized for their importance in IIS for vaccine inventory management and their potential to increase patient safety through identification of persons who were administered recalled vaccine and reporting of vaccine-associated adverse events.
The proportion of IIS including fields for these data elements in IIS has been high.
In 2006, 89% of IIS contained a field for recording vaccine manufacturer and 88% contained a field for lot number; these increased in 2011 to 98% and 100%, respectively.
The completeness of data in these fields has increased from 37% for both in 2006 to 63% for vaccine manufacturer and 60% for lot number in 2011 (Figure 3).
Reported by Cristina Cardemil, MD, Laura Pabst, MPH, Ken Gerlach, MPH, Immunization Services Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Cristina Cardemil, ccardemil@cdc.gov, 404-639-8241.
Editorial Note Child participation in IIS and completeness of data for vaccine manufacturer and lot number in IIS increased steadily from 2006 to 2011.
Maximal child participation and complete records are needed to fully realize the benefits of IIS, which include clinical decision support, vaccination coverage reports, support for vaccine-preventable disease outbreak response, vaccine inventory management, and the ability to generate reminder and recall messages.
Developing and promoting these beneficial tools that IIS offer to providers can encourage provider participation in IIS.
If provider participation in IIS increases, child participation increases.
Several ongoing initiatives are expected to increase participation in IIS and improve the completeness and accuracy of data contained in IIS, including enhanced interoperability between IIS and electronic health records (EHRs), the use of IIS to interface with VTrckS, CDC's vaccine tracking system for publicly purchased vaccine, and the use of 2D barcodes to facilitate recording vaccine information in EHRs and IIS.
VTrcks and interoperability initiatives have been reported on previously (1,7).
The 2D barcode project is an additional initiative that might help to address the completeness and accuracy of these fields.
In September 2011, CDC initiated a 2D vaccine barcode pilot project** to assess the impact and best practices of 2D barcoded vaccines on vaccine administration and inventory management.
This pilot project also will assess the ability of 2D barcoding technology to improve the completeness and accuracy of electronically stored immunization information.
Printed 2D barcodes encode more information in a smaller area than the space needed for linear barcodes, meaning that all vaccine product data can be encoded into a symbol compact enough to appear on a single-dose vial or syringe.
Although the linear barcode could hold the information, space constraints on the vial or syringe make the use of the linear barcode unrealistic.
A 2D barcode will contain a Global Trade Identification Number that uniquely identifies the product and manufacturer, the lot expiration date, and the lot number.
Pilot participants include 10 CDC immunization program grantees, 220 immunization providers (public and private), and two vaccine manufacturers.
Documenting vaccine product information and lot number is required by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends documenting vaccine expiration date to improve patient safety.
To report vaccine product data to an IIS, providers must either type them into an EHR, which transmits data to the IIS, or type the information into the IIS directly.
In addition to recording data electronically in an EHR or IIS, some providers also record these data by hand in paper records.
Recording information by hand and duplication of entries takes time and resources and increases the likelihood of data entry errors.
Use of a 2D barcode on vaccines could allow for rapid, complete, and accurate capture of these vaccine product data by a barcode scanner that could transfer the information to EHRs and IIS.
A CDC assessment of the impact of 2D barcode for vaccine production, clinical documentation, and public health reporting and tracking analyzed the expected costs and benefits of barcode use by immunization providers.
The assessment found that for every $1 expended, $2.70–$2.80 in benefits were expected to accrue from 2011 through 2023 (8).
Net benefits to society were forecast to be $326 million to $349 million.
Among surveyed primary-care providers who did not report immunizations to IIS currently, 63% indicated they would be more likely to do so if the 2D barcode were available.
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, data from the IISAR were self-reported and self-validated.
As with other technological advances, adoption of 2D barcode technology for recording vaccination information has the long-term potential to improve vaccine safety monitoring and inventory management, reduce staff time spent manually capturing vaccine data, decrease costs for vaccine stakeholders, and enhance the completeness and accuracy of vaccination information in electronic medical records and IIS.
The barcode effort is one of many recent advances in health-care technology that should have the added benefit of reducing the reporting burden on providers while improving the quality of data in IIS.
These advances and the resulting increase in data quality might lead to increased vaccine provider, and therefore child, participation in IIS, and achievement of the Healthy People 2020 objective and NVAC goals.
References CDC.
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2010.
MMWR 2012;61:464–7.
Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Universally recommended vaccinations: immunization information systems.
In: Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Atlanta, GA: Community Preventive Services Task Force; 2010.
Available at 
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2020.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010.
Available at 
National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group.
2001 minimum functional standards for registries.
Atlanta, GA: National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group; 2011.
Available at 
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Immunization information systems: National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) progress report.
Atlanta, GA: National Vaccine Advisory Committee; 2007.
Available at 
US Census Bureau.
State single year of age and sex population estimates: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2011—resident.
Washington, DC: US Census Bureau; 2011.
Available at 
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2009.
MMWR 2011;60:10–2.
Impact of a two-dimensional barcode for vaccine production, clinical documentation, and public health reporting and tracking: final report; 2012.
Available at  .
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
† Additional information available at 
§ Required core data elements include the patient's name (first, middle, last), sex, race, ethnicity, birth date, birth state/country, birth order, mother's name (first, middle, last, maiden), vaccine type, vaccine manufacturer, vaccination date, vaccine lot number.
Data on birth order is not reported here because field completeness can only be assessed if a person is part of a multiple birth, which is a relatively infrequent event.
¶ IIS contain one record per child and a field for each data element pertaining to a patient's and mother's demographic information.
Each child has multiple vaccination records, and each of these vaccination records has an associated field for each data element pertaining to that vaccination (e.g., manufacturer, date, and lot number).
** Additional information available at  and 
What is already known on this topic?
In 2010, 82% of the 18.8 million U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2011, 84% (19.2 million) of U.S.
Among IIS grantees, completeness of data for vaccine manufacturer and vaccine lot number has increased since 2006, but remained suboptimal at 63% and 60%, respectively, in 2011.
In 2011, CDC initiated a vaccine barcoding pilot project to determine best practices for labeling and tracking vaccines using 2D barcodes that include vaccine product information, lot number, and expiration date.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Widespread adoption of 2D vaccine barcoding among manufacturers and providers has the potential to increase completeness and accuracy of IIS data and improve patient safety.
More complete and accurate data elements might provide an additional incentive for providers to participate in IIS, which in turn can increase child participation in IIS.
* Defined as having two or more vaccinations recorded in the IIS.
† Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
cities, and the District of Columbia during 2011.
Nationally, 19.2 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 to 84% in 2011.
An additional 13 (24%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94%.
Among the 54 grantees reporting in 2011, 32 (59%) included a field for each of the 18 data elements in their immunization information systems (IIS).
The most common data elements not included in IIS were birth order for multiple births only (nine grantees), mother's middle name (eight grantees), and birth country (six grantees).
In 2006, 89% of IIS contained a field for recording vac¬cine manufacturer and 88% contained a field for lot number; these increased in 2011 to 98% and 100%, respectively.
The completeness of these fields has increased from 37% for both in 2006 to 63% for vaccine manufacturer and 60% for lot number in 2011.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems --- United States, 2009 Weekly January 14, 2011 / 60(01);10-12 An immunization information system (IIS) is a confidential, computerized, population-based system that collects and consolidates vaccination data from vaccine providers and provides tools for designing and sustaining effective immunization strategies at the provider and program levels.
Among the capabilities of an IIS are the capacity to inform vaccine providers of upcoming patient vaccination needs; generate vaccination coverage reports, patient reminders, or recalls for past due vaccinations; and interoperate with electronic health record (EHR) systems.
In 2010, the Task Force on Community Preventive Services recommended that immunization information systems be used to increase vaccination coverage after showing strong evidence of their effectiveness (1).
To assess IIS progress toward meeting the Healthy People objective, CDC analyzed data from the 2009 Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR) survey (completed by 53 of 56 federal grantees with IIS sites), which indicated that 77% of all U.S.
In addition, 59% of grantees reported being able to send and receive vaccination data using Health Level Seven (HL7) messaging standards, and 73% reported that some vaccine providers with EHR systems in their geographic area were providing vaccination data directly to an IIS from EHRs.
Enhancing IIS and EHR with standards such as HL7 will provide greater consistency in data exchange and likely help to improve the quality and timeliness of IIS data.
To monitor progress toward IIS program objectives, CDC annually surveys 56 IIS grantees (50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia) via IISAR.
In 2009, 53 (95%) of the 56 grantees completed the IISAR survey (Kentucky and Massachusetts were implementing a new IIS and did not have data to report; New Hampshire elected not to implement an IIS).
The self-administered survey asks about vaccination coverage for all age groups, provider participation in IIS, and IIS functionality (e.g., managing vaccine inventory in the vaccine provider office, EHR communication with IIS, and conducting vaccine provider assessments using IIS).
The calculations were made by dividing the number of children participating in an IIS by the 2009 midyear U.S.
Ten (19%) of the 53 reported participation ranging from 80% to 94% (Figure) (3).
IIS Adherence to Standards In 2001, the Technical Working Group of the National Immunization Program established 12 standards regarding the minimum technical functions an IIS should implement (4,5).
Three of these standards were considered for this report: 1) electronically store data on all 17 core data elements recommended by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC), 2) receive and process immunization information within 1 month of vaccine administration, and 3) exchange immunization records using HL7 standards, which allow for efficient transfer of records and data de-duplication within systems (6).
To assess adherence to these three standards, data were analyzed from 51 of the 56 grantees (Chicago, Houston, Kentucky, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire were excluded) in 2009 and compared with data from 52 grantees in 2008.
In addition, nine of the remaining 11 core data elements showed increases in completion rates from 2008 to 2009.
Regarding the other standards, 70% of IIS data were received and processed within 1 month of vaccine administration, an increase from 67% in 2008 (3).
Also, 30 (59%) of the 51 grantees reported the ability to send and receive HL7 messages, four (8%) grantees reported partial ability to meet HL7 capability by either sending or receiving messages, and 17 (33%) grantees reported having no HL7 functionality.
In 2009, 37 (73%) of 51 grantees reported that at least some vaccine provider--site EHR systems were providing immunization data directly to an IIS.
A total of 3,618 provider-site EHR systems provided immunization data directly to a grantee IIS, compared with 1,848 in 2008.
Reported by W Brand, MPH, Public Health Informatics Institute, Decatur, Georgia.
B Rasulnia, PhD, G Urquhart, MPH, Immunization Services Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Some challenges are being addressed through efforts to enhance interoperability of EHR and IIS, increase use of HL7 messaging, and offer vaccine provider incentives.
These interventions can help 1) reduce the time from vaccine administration to inclusion of data in an IIS record, 2) reduce dual data entry by vaccine providers because vaccination data will only be entered into the EHR and then exchanged with the IIS using HL7 messaging, and 3) increase completeness of immunization information (core data elements and vaccination data) by adding data not collected previously by an IIS.
Provisions of the Health Information Technology for Clinical and Economic Health (HITECH) Act (7) are intended to accelerate adoption of nationally certified EHR systems, standardize EHR products, support growth in the health information technology workforce, and facilitate secure exchange of health data between disparate partners.
A centerpiece of the HITECH Act is the EHR Incentive Program (8), administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
CMS provides financial incentives to eligible health-care providers, and hospitals must acquire certified products that support standards-based electronic reporting to IIS, including use of the HL7 table of vaccines administered.
To receive their incentive payments, eligible professionals (outpatient vaccine providers) have to satisfy at least one of the following public health reporting requirements.
They must conduct an HL7 messaging test, IIS reporting (and fulfill reporting requirements as per locality), laboratory reporting, or syndromic surveillance reporting.
States can specify as mandatory any of the public health requirements for the Medicaid "meaningful use" program.
In 2010, CDC received HITECH funding for 20 IIS grantees to measurably enhance EHR-IIS interoperability.
Over a 24-month project period, the 20 IIS grantees will be developing or enhancing HL7 messaging capacity and increasing the number of interfaces with EHRs.
The grantees also will need to ensure adequate programmatic and technical capacity for increased electronic data submission testing, ensuring that electronic files submitted to EHR are complete and accurate.
Finally, the grantees will coordinate with state health information technology coordinators and health information exchange organizations to ensure coordination with overall statewide plans, policies, and protocols for secure exchange of data using standards such as HL7 (9).
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, although guidance on algorithms to validate their data are provided to IIS grantees by CDC, the data from the 2009 IISAR were self-reported and self-validated.
Findings from the Taskforce on Community Preventive Services systematic review of the literature have highlighted how the IIS can be effective in increasing vaccination coverage (1).
IIS offers capabilities such as patient reminder and recall systems, vaccine provider assessment and feedback, use of data for public health responses to outbreaks of vaccine-preventable disease, facilitation of vaccine management and accountability, and assessment of client vaccination status for decisions made by health-care providers (1).
Enhancing IIS and EHR to adopt national standards and interoperability specifications will help provide greater consistency in data exchange and likely reduce interface costs over time.
Increased IIS data accuracy, timeliness, and completeness can improve the quality of IIS-based vaccination coverage assessments, better support clinical decisions at the health-care provider level, and improve the data available for other public health functions.
References Guide to Community Preventive Services.
Universally recommended vaccinations: immunization information systems.
Atlanta, GA: Guide to Community Preventive Services; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2020.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
Progress in immunization information systems---United States, 2008.
MMWR 2010;59:133--5.
National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group.
2001 minimum functional standards for registries.
Atlanta, GA: National Immunization Program, Technical Working Group; 2001.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Development of community and state-based immunization registries: report of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC).
Atlanta, GA: National Vaccine Advisory Committee; 1999.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
HL7 version 2.5.1: implementation guide for immunization messaging.
Atlanta, GA: CDC; 2010.
Available at  .
Accessed January 10, 2011.
US Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology.
HITECH programs.
Washington, DC: Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services.
Electronic health records incentive programs.
Baltimore, MD: Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC.
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding announcement for enhancing the interoperability of electronic health records (EHR) and immunization information systems (IIS).
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed January 10, 2011.
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston and San Antonio, Texas; New York, New York; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
What is already known on this topic?
An estimated 75% of all U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2009, 77% of all U.S.
Also, 59% of IIS grantees reported being able to send and receive Health Level Seven (HL7) messages, and another 8% of grantees with IIS were partially able to meet HL7 capability by either sending or receiving messages.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Enhancing the interoperability of IIS and electronic health record systems will help provide greater consistency in data exchange and likely reduce interface costs over time.
Increased IIS data accuracy, timeliness, and completeness can improve the quality of IIS-based coverage assessments, better support clinical decisions at the health-care provider level, and increase availability of the data for other public health functions.
Ten (19%) of the 53 reported participation ranging from 80% to 94%.
Additional information available at 
† Calculated using the number of data field completions in IIS records and the overall number of IIS records.
§ Additional core data element recommended by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee in 2007.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems — United States, 2010 Weekly June 29, 2012 / 61(25);464-467 Immunization information systems (IIS) are confidential, computerized, population-based systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from vaccination providers and provide important tools for designing and sustaining effective immunization strategies at the provider and immunization program levels (1).
These tools include clinical decision support, vaccination coverage reports, interoperability with electronic health record systems, vaccine inventory management, and the ability to generate reminder and recall messages.
In 2010, based on strong evidence of effectiveness, the Task Force on Community Preventive Services recommended IIS use as a means of increasing vaccination rates (2).
To monitor progress toward program goals, CDC annually surveys 56 immunization program grantees (50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia) using the IIS Annual Report (IISAR).
Results from the 2010 IISAR (completed by 54 grantees) indicate that 82% (18.8 million) of U.S.
Among 52 grantees who responded to questions about the Vaccine Tracking System (VTrckS), CDC's new national vaccine ordering and inventory management system for publicly purchased vaccine, 38 (73%) indicated their intention to use the IIS in their state or city to interface with VTrckS.
Use of IIS to interface with VTrckS might provide additional incentive for vaccination providers to participate in IIS and enhance IIS utility by supporting efficient and effective methods for providers to order vaccine and track inventory and by promoting greater accountability of publicly purchased vaccine.
Of 56 immunization program grantees (50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia), 2010 IISAR data† were available for 54 grantees (Massachusetts was excluded because of an incomplete report and New Hampshire was not eligible because it did not have an IIS in 2010).
The self-administered survey asked about child, adolescent, and adult participation in IIS, vaccination coverage for these groups, provider participation in IIS, and IIS functionality (e.g., interoperability with electronic health records, data quality, vaccine inventory management, and use of IIS data).
Child Participation Child participation was defined as having two or more vaccinations documented in an IIS.
Census estimate for the number of children in this age group in that grantee's geographic area.
Demographic data in IIS are obtained from birth certificates and birth hospital records, which often also contain records of the birth dose of hepatitis B vaccine.
Defining participation in an IIS as having ≥2 recorded doses ensures that the child received at least one vaccination from a provider who participates in an IIS.
Nationally, 18.8 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006§ to 82% in 2010, with an average 4.8 percentage point increase each year.
An additional 14 (26%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94% (Figure 1).
Provider Site Participation Vaccination provider sites enroll in IIS to share vaccination data and to use IIS functions and features that support vaccine delivery.
In the 2010 IISAR, sites were considered to participate in IIS if they submitted data to the IIS in their state or city in the previous six months (i.e., from July 1 through December 31, 2010), indicating recent submissions.
Data were collected separately for public and private provider sites.
In 2010, a total of 11,536 public and 36,512 private provider sites participated in IIS.
Provider site participation rates were not calculated because the number of vaccination providers in the United States is not known.
From 2006 through 2010, 49 grantees (excluding Alaska, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and South Carolina) reported data each year.
Among grantees with available data, the number of participating public provider sites increased from a low of 6,745 in 2006 to a high of 11,536 in 2010; private provider site participation also increased annually during the period, from 27,894 to 36,512 (Figure 2).
Although the number of public and private provider sites that participated in IIS increased from 2006 to 2010, these counts lagged behind the number enrolled each year (40,075 enrolled provider sites in 2006; 88,061 enrolled provider sites in 2010).
The substantial increase in enrolled public and private provider sites in 2010 likely represents response to the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic; most immunization programs required providers to enroll in the IIS in their state or city to obtain influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 vaccine.
Vaccine Inventory and Management In 2010, CDC developed VTrckS,¶ a vaccine tracking system to facilitate vaccine ordering, inventory management, and related processes for publicly purchased vaccine.
Vaccination providers can report inventory and order vaccine in three ways: 1) providers can access VTrckS directly through a web service, 2) immunization program grantees can manually enter vaccine orders and inventory into the VTrckS web service on behalf of providers, and 3) providers can enter vaccine orders and inventory into an IIS, which interfaces with VTrckS through a file upload.
Immunization program grantees can select one or more options for vaccination providers in their jurisdiction.
In the 2010 IISAR, 38 (73%) of the 52 grantees that responded to VTrckS questions indicated their intention to use their IIS to interface with VTrckS.
Among those 38 grantees, 32 (84%) planned to implement this functionality within 12 months.
Of the 14 grantees not intending to use their IIS to interface with VTrckS, 11 (79%) planned to manually enter vaccine orders into VTrckS on behalf of providers and eight (57%) planned to allow providers to access VTrckS directly.
Reported by Janet Fath, PhD, Terence W.
Ng, MPH, Laura J.
Pabst, MPH, Immunization Services Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Corresponding contributor: Laura J.
Pabst, lpabst@cdc.gov, 404-639-6082.
Editorial Note Data from the IISARs demonstrate that increases in child and provider site participation in IIS have been achieved in recent years.
However, challenges to meeting the Healthy People 2020 objective and other program goals remain.
Because IIS rely on providers to submit vaccination data to the system, ensuring that immunization programs identify, recruit, and train all vaccination providers in their jurisdictions to participate in IIS is essential.
One of several challenges to achieving those goals is that no master list or database of U.S.
vaccination provider sites exists.
Provider sites begin and cease operations often, making it difficult for immunization programs to ensure that all vaccination provider sites in a state or city have been identified and enrolled.
Immunization programs use multiple resources to identify all vaccination providers in their jurisdictions.
However, systematic solutions to this challenge that can be applied across all grantees in the United States are not yet available.
The population of providers currently enrolled in IIS likely does not represent all vaccination providers in the United States.
This, in addition to the gap between enrolled and participating provider sites in IIS from 2006–2010, suggests that additional progress can be made.
Another challenge is that, although several states and cities have legal mandates requiring some or all vaccination providers to report vaccinations to the IIS, these mandates are difficult to enforce.
The 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic highlighted another challenge in measuring provider site participation in IIS.
Most immunization programs required providers who wished to obtain influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 vaccine to enroll in the IIS.
Because of the high public demand for vaccine and the need for diverse health-care providers to offer the vaccine to persons, many providers who do not typically engage in routine vaccination activities enrolled in IIS.
Some of these providers ultimately did not order and administer influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 vaccine.
Those who did might have administered influenza vaccine only during the first half of 2010, during the national response to the pandemic.
After August 2010, when the pandemic was determined to have ended, those providers likely did not administer or report influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 vaccine doses during the rest of the year, when provider site participation was measured.
This might have resulted in a substantial increase in the number of provider sites enrolled in IIS, without a corresponding increase in the number of participating provider sites.
Thus, tracking provider site participation rates, rather than counts, can lead to misinterpretations of IIS achievements.
To encourage participation among routine vaccinators, IIS offer many tools to benefit providers (e.g., vaccine forecasting, reminder and recall messaging, and provider assessment and feedback).
The recent inclusion of vaccine inventory and management tools in IIS might further support vaccination providers and encourage participation in IIS.
In 2010, CDC introduced VTrckS, which replaced several older systems at CDC.
VTrckS is designed to enhance internal controls and help standardize and improve processes for contract management and reconciliation, vaccine ordering, and inventory tracking.
Before VTrckS became available, some IIS grantees had added, or were in the process of adding, vaccine ordering components to their IIS.
To support these grantees and others who planned to add similar components to their IIS, CDC developed software capabilities, referred to as the VTrckS ExIS interface, to facilitate sharing data between other vaccine inventory systems (e.g., IIS) and VTrckS.
Grantees that choose to use the VTrckS ExIS interface are not required to use their IIS; grantees may choose instead to use another external system for that function.
However, the majority of immunization program grantees have indicated that they plan to use their IIS.
Providers benefit by this approach because they can access a single system (the IIS) to order publicly funded vaccines and to otherwise participate in the state's immunization program.
In 2010, the ExIS interface was successfully pilot tested with two IIS, which were included among the 38 that indicated interest in using the interface.
Since completion of the 2010 IISAR and the ExIS pilot, three additional grantees committed to using their IIS to interface with VTrckS, for a total of 41 of 56 grantees.
Deployment is scheduled to occur between May 2012 and May 2013.
The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, although CDC provides guidance to grantees to validate IISAR responses, data are self-reported and self-validated, which might overestimate or underestimate participation rates.
Second, because some of the 56 grantees did not report data during the period studied, nationwide child and provider site participation estimates might be underestimated.
Finally, the full universe of vaccination providers in the United States is not known, thus limiting accurate assessment of provider site participation.
The mass enrollment of provider sites during the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic biased participation rates in 2010 and limited the assessment of trends.
VTrckS was designed to modernize the vaccine ordering and management process.
Use of IIS to interface with VTrckS allows grantees to manage vaccine ordering and distribution at the local level, submit data to the national system, and maintain control of their processes and communications with providers.
Providers save time by logging on to a single system to report vaccinations, review patient vaccine histories, track inventory, order vaccines, and use other IIS functions and features.
The success of these efforts reinforces the benefits of IIS for immunization programs and vaccination providers.
Use of IIS to interface with VTrckS might provide an additional incentive for vaccination providers to participate in IIS.
The interface with VTrckS might further enhance the utility of IIS by supporting efficient and effective methods for providers to order vaccine and track inventory and by promoting greater accountability for publicly purchased vaccine.
References CDC.
Progress in immunization information systems—United States, 2009.
MMWR 2011;60:10–2.
Community Preventive Services Task Force.
Universally recommended vaccinations: immunization information systems.
In: The guide to community preventive services.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed February 9, 2012.
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2020.
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010.
Available at 
Accessed February 9, 2012.
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
† Additional information available at 
§ An error was identified in previously published 2006–2009 child participation rates.
Data have been corrected in this report.
¶ Additional information available at 
What is already known on this topic?
In 2006, a total of 34,639 vaccination provider sites participated in immunization information systems (IIS).
In 2009, 78% of all U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2010, the number of vaccination provider sites participating in IIS increased to 48,048, and 82% of all U.S.
Among immunization program grantees, 73% reported that they intended to use their IIS to interface with the Vaccine Tracking System (VTrckS), CDC's new vaccine ordering and inventory management system for publicly purchased vaccine; the remaining grantees intended to access VTrckS directly.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Use of IIS to interface with VTrckS might provide an additional incentive for vaccine providers to participate in IIS and further enhance the utility of IIS by supporting efficient and effective methods for providers to order vaccine and track inventory and by promoting greater accountability of publicly purchased vaccine.
* Defined as having two or more vaccinations recorded in the IIS.
† Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
Nationally, 18.8 million U.S.
Child participation in IIS has increased steadily, from 63% in 2006 to 82% in 2010, with an average 4.8 percentage point increase each year.
An additional 14 (26%) grantees reported child participation rates ranging from 80% to 94%.
Number of public and private vaccination provider sites enrolled and participating* in an Immunization Information System (IIS), by year — United States, 2006–2010 * Defined as having submitted data to the IIS in the last 6 months.
Alternate Text: The figure above shows the number of public and private vaccination provider sites enrolled and participating in an immunization information system, by year, in the United States during 2006-2010.
From 2006 through 2010, 49 grantees (excluding Alaska, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and South Carolina) reported data each year.
Among grantees with available data, the number of participating public provider sites increased from a low of 6,745 in 2006 to a high of 11,536 in 2010; private provider site participation also increased annually during the period, from 27,894 to 36,512.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Progress in Immunization Information Systems --- United States, 2008 Please note: An erratum has been published for this article.
To view the erratum, please click here.
Weekly February 12, 2010 / 59(05);133-135 Immunization information systems (IISs) are confidential, computerized information systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from multiple health-care providers, generate reminder and recall notifications, and assess vaccination coverage within a defined geographic area (1).
To monitor progress toward this goal, CDC annually surveys immunization grantees in 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia, using the Immunization Information Systems Annual Report (IISAR).
All 56 grantees were asked to complete the IISAR; 52 did so for 2008.
This report highlights results from the 2008 IISAR, which indicated that 75% of all U.S.
The majority of grantees (82%) reported that their IIS had the capacity to track vaccinations for persons of all ages, compared with 70% in 2006 (1).
Increased provider use of electronic health record systems can benefit IISs and their users by producing immunization records that are more timely and complete.
The 2008 IISAR, a self-administered, Internet-based questionnaire, was made available to state and local immunization program managers in the 50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia that receive funding under section 317 of the Public Health Service Act,† as part of an annual reporting requirement.
All 56 grantees were asked to complete the IISAR, and 52 did so for 2008.
The percentage of all U.S.
Approximately 18 million U.S.
children in that age group) participated in an IIS in 2008, compared with 15 million (65%) in 2006 (1).
For 2008, a total of 11 (21%) grantees reported child participation ranging from 80% to 94%, compared with 10 of 56 (18%) in 2006.
In 2008, an estimated 23 million adolescents aged 11--18 years (65% of all U.S.
adolescents) participated in an IIS, compared with 22.3 million (66%) in 2006.
Nationally, 95 million persons of all ages (33% of the U.S.
population) were participating in an IIS in 2008.
IIS timeliness is measured by the interval between 1) a child's birth and the establishment of an IIS record and 2) administration of a vaccine and submission of its dose-related data to an IIS (2).
In 2008, 71% of IISs reported that an IIS record had been established for newborn children within 6 weeks of birth (compared with 69% in 2006) (1).
Completeness of IIS data is measured by 1) assessing IIS records for data on National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) core data elements (3) and 2) determining the proportion of children aged 19--35 months participating in an IIS who were recorded as having received the complete 4:3:1:3:3:1§ series of recommended vaccine doses.
Core data elements are designed to standardize a set of patient demographic and vaccine event elements, which are necessary for identification and removal of duplicate records and data exchange with other health information systems (2,3).
In 2008, very little or no change occurred in the percentage of data in IISs for nine of the 17 core data elements (compared with 2006) (1).
The second completeness measure indicated that of the 4.4 million children aged 19--35 months participating in an IIS, an estimated 2.0 million (47%) had documentation in the IIS of having fully completed the recommended 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccination series in 2008, compared with 45% in 2006 (1).
Completeness of IIS vaccination histories varied substantially by grantee.
In 2008, 30% of children aged 19--35 months participating in an IIS who had an incomplete vaccination series were only 1 dose away from series completion.
Reported by J Kelly, V Heboyan, PhD, B Rasulnia, PhD, G Urquhart, MPH, Immunization Information Systems Support Br, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
From 2006 to 2008, participation increased from 65% to 75%.
This upward trend in participation suggests that IISs might be on target to meet the CDC 2010 goal.
However, although participation rates have increased, data-quality issues continue to pose challenges.
The push to include more adolescent and adult vaccination data in IISs, in addition to the complexities of receiving administrative data from multiple sources (e.g., vital records, health plans, billing systems, and Medicaid/Medicare), might have contributed to the lack of progress on data-quality measures.
CDC's current efforts to improve IIS data quality include collaboration with grantees and the American Immunization Registry Association to develop best practices for IIS functionality (5).
CDC IIS sentinel sites¶ will begin to incorporate some of these guidelines within the next year.
Although not directly comparable because of the differences in methodology and sampling techniques, comparison of results from IIS 4:3:1:3:3:1 series completion with results from the National Immunization Survey (NIS) is useful.
For 2008, IISAR data indicated that 47% of children participating in an IIS had complete histories for the full 4:3:1:3:3:1 series.
This is lower than the estimated proportion (76%) of children reported by NIS to have received the same series (6).
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, data from the 2008 IISAR were not validated by independent review.
An additional CDC initiative is to implement national standards to enhance the interoperability of electronic data exchanges between electronic health record systems in immunization provider offices and IISs.
Enhanced interoperability will improve the completeness of immunization histories available to clinicians and public health practitioners, the timeliness of immunization data submission to IISs, the quality of IIS coverage assessments, and the data available to other public health systems (e.g., vaccine-preventable disease surveillance units).
References CDC.
Immunization information system progress---United States, 2006.
MMWR 2008;57:289--91.
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
2001 minimum functional standards for registries.
Available at 
Accessed February 4, 2010.
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Development of community and state-based immunization registries: report of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 1999.
Available at 
Accessed February 4, 2010.
Hinman AR, Urquhart GA, Strikas RA; the National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Immunization information systems: National Vaccine Advisory Committee progress report, 2007.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2007;13:553--8.
American Immunization Registry Association.
Modeling of Immunization Registry Operations Workgroup (MIROW).
IIS operational best practice guidelines.
Available at 
Accessed February 4, 2010.
National, state, and local area vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months---United States, 2008.
MMWR 2009;58:921--6.
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
† 42 USC Sect.
247b, project grants for preventive services.
§ Includes 4 doses diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccines, 3 doses poliovirus vaccine, 1 dose measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine, 3 doses Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine, 3 doses hepatitis B vaccine, 1 dose varicella.
¶ Additional information available at 
What is already known on this topic?
Approximately 65% of all U.S.
What is added by this report?
In 2008, 75% of all U.S.
What are the implications for public health practice?
Enhanced interoperability between electronic health record systems and IISs can improve 1) the completeness of immunization histories available to clinicians and public health practitioners, 2) the timeliness of immunization data submission to IISs, 3) the quality of IIS coverage assessments, and 4) the data available to other public health systems.
† Chicago, Illinois (40%); District of Columbia (100%); Houston, Texas (54%); New York, New York (100%); Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (100%); and San Antonio, Texas (72%).
§ In transition is defined as a grantee implementing a new IIS product.
states, five cities, and the District of Columbia in 2008.
Approximately 18 million U.S.
children in that age group) participated in an IIS in 2008, compared with 15 million (65%) in 2006.
Additional information available at 
† Calculated by number of data field completions in IIS records and the overall number of IIS records.
§ Additional required core data elements as recommended by the National Vaccine Advisory Committee in 2007.
¶ Not available.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Weekly August 28, 2009 / 58(33);921-926 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
National, State, and Local Area Vaccination Coverage Among Children Aged 19--35 Months --- United States, 2008 The National Immunization Survey (NIS) estimates vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months for 50 states and selected local areas.* Healthy People 2010 established vaccination coverage targets of 90% for individual vaccines in the 4:3:1:3:3:1† vaccine series and 80% for the series.§ This report describes the 2008 NIS coverage estimates for this series and individual vaccines, 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7), ≥2 doses of hepatitis A vaccine (HepA), and hepatitis B vaccination received in the first 3 days of life (HepB birth dose)¶ among children born during January 2005--June 2007.
In 2008, 4:3:1:3:3:1 series coverage was 76.1%, compared with 77.4% in 2007; ≥90% coverage was maintained for all recommended series vaccines, except ≥4 doses of diphtheria, tetanus, and acellular pertussis (DTaP) vaccine (1).
Coverage with ≥3 doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (Hib) decreased from 2007, likely because of the shortage of Hib vaccine and the recommendation to defer the routine Hib vaccine booster dose administered at age 12--15 months (2).
Substantial variability was observed in individual and series vaccination coverage among states/local areas.
Among racial/ethnic groups,** coverage varied little and, after adjusting for poverty, coverage estimates were not significantly lower for any groups compared with whites.
However, children living below poverty had lower coverage than children living at or above poverty for most vaccines.
Sustaining high coverage levels and using effective methods of reducing disparities across states/local areas and income groups remains a priority to fully protect children and limit the incidence of vaccine-preventable diseases.
The NIS is an ongoing, random-digit--dialed survey of households with children aged 19--35 months at the time of interview, followed by a mail survey of the children's vaccination providers to collect vaccination information.
Data are weighted to adjust for households with multiple telephone lines, household nonresponse, and exclusion of households without landline telephones (3).
During 2008, the household response rate was 63.2%; a total of 18,430 children with provider-reported vaccination records were included in this report, representing 71.0% of all children with completed household interviews.
Estimates were adjusted using final survey weights to correct for nonresponse (3).
Logistic regression was used to control for the effects of poverty to further examine differences among racial/ethnic groups.
National coverage for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 series was 76.1% in 2008, and coverage estimates for all individual vaccines in the series were ≥90% except coverage with ≥4 doses of DTaP, which was 84.6% (Table 1).
PCV7 coverage continued to increase, from 90.0% to 92.8% for ≥3 doses and from 75.3% to 80.1% for ≥4 doses.
Coverage with ≥3 doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (Hib) decreased from 92.6% to 90.9%.
National coverage for ≥2 doses of HepA was 40.4%.
HepB birth dose coverage increased to 55.3%, compared with 53.2% in 2007 (Table 1).
The percentage of children receiving no vaccinations by age 19--35 months remained at 0.6%.
Estimated vaccination coverage varied substantially among states and local areas (Table 2).
State coverage for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 series ranged from 59.2% (Montana) to 82.3% (Massachusetts) and among local areas from 68.5% (northern California counties) to 80.9% (Santa Clara County, California) (Table 2).
Among states, HepB birth dose coverage ranged from 19.1% (Vermont) to 81.4% (Arizona) (Table 2).
Little variability in coverage was observed among racial/ethnic groups (Table 3).
Among routinely recommended vaccines, only coverage with ≥4 doses of DTaP and ≥4 doses of PCV7 was higher among white children compared with black children.
This disparity did not persist after controlling for poverty status.†† Vaccination coverage levels were similar across racial/ethnic groups for the combined 4:3:1:3:3:1 series.
After controlling for poverty status, no coverage estimates remained significantly lower for any racial/ethnic group compared with whites.
Coverage estimates were lower for children living below poverty compared with those living at or above poverty for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 series and for most vaccines; coverage was lower by 7--9 percentage points for ≥4 doses of DTaP and PCV7 (Table 3).
National coverage with ≥3 doses of Hib declined significantly compared with 2007 for children living below poverty (-3.1 percentage points), whereas coverage did not decline significantly for children living at or above poverty (-0.9 percentage points).
Reported by: NA Molinari, PhD, N Darling, MPH, M McCauley, MTSC, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Editorial Note: The results from the 2008 NIS, a vaccination coverage survey of children born during January 2005--June 2007, demonstrate that the nation's immunization program (i.e., the U.S.
network of federal, state, and local public health officials in partnership with health-care providers and parents) remained successful in maintaining high vaccination rates among young children.
However, with approximately 12,000 children born every day in the United States, each requiring protection from vaccine-preventable diseases, continued attention is needed to meet Healthy People 2010 vaccination coverage levels and improve coverage in select groups with lower vaccination coverage.
A significant gap in coverage persists between children who live in poverty and those who do not.
This difference suggests that barriers to accessing preventive health care among children living below poverty, such as the underinsured or uninsured, are not fully addressed by programs already in place, such as the Vaccines for Children Program,§§ which covers only the cost of the vaccine.
Out-of-pocket costs, such as costs of vaccine administration, well-child visits, transportation, lost time from work, or other locally identified barriers must be addressed to raise coverage among all children who live in poverty (4).
Coverage for ≥3 doses of Hib vaccine declined significantly from 2007 to 2008.
Although the cause for this decline cannot be determined solely using data from the 2008 NIS, the decline might be related to changes in vaccination practices, including deferral of the booster dose, resulting from a Hib shortage that began December 2007 and ended June 2009 (2,5).
As Hib vaccine supplies improved, ACIP reinstated the booster dose in June 2009 (2) and recommended that providers administer the booster dose to the deferred children at the child's next routinely scheduled visit or medical encounter (2).
In 2009, NIS data collection will include vaccine manufacturer type and a greater proportion of the deferred children, which will allow a more complete examination of the effects of the Hib shortage with subsequent years of data.
The 2008 NIS marks the first time that coverage estimates are routinely reported for the HepB birth dose and for ≥2 doses of HepA among children aged 19--35 months, although previous estimates have been reported¶¶ (6,7).
National coverage for HepB birth dose and ≥2 doses of HepA was 55.3% and 40.4%, respectively.
Previous data reported HepA coverage for ≥1 doses, not the full 2-dose series, among a subset of children, aged 24--35 months (6).
Similarly, most children in the 2008 NIS were born after December 2005 (69%), when ACIP updated the HepB birth dose recommendation to include all medically stable newborns when administering the first dose before hospital discharge (9).
The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, NIS is a landline telephone survey; although studies indicate that statistical adjustments adequately compensate for noncoverage of households without telephones, nonresponse and noncoverage bias might remain (10).
Second, underestimates of vaccination coverage might have resulted from the exclusive use of provider-reported vaccination histories because completeness of these records is unknown.
Finally, although annual national coverage estimates are precise, estimates for state and local areas should be interpreted with caution because of smaller sample sizes and wider confidence intervals.
CDC currently is engaged in many areas of research to address vaccination coverage, including evaluations of interventions at state and local levels to increase vaccination coverage, and surveys to understand physician and parent beliefs about vaccines.
CDC continues to encourage use of proven methods of improving coverage, which include parent and provider reminder/recall, reducing out-of-pocket costs, increasing access to vaccination, and multi-component interventions that include education.*** References CDC.
Recommendations and guidelines: 2009 child & adolescent immunization schedules for persons aged 0--6 years, 7--18 years, and catch-up schedule.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2009.
Available at 
Updated recommendations for use of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine: reinstatement of the booster dose at ages 12--15 months.
MMWR 2009;58:673--4.
Statistical methodology of the National Immunization Survey, 1994--2002.
Vital Health Stat 2005;2(138).
Available at 
Molinari N, Kolasa M, Messonnier M, Schieber R.
Out-of-pocket costs of childhood immunizations: a comparison by type of insurance plan.
Pediatrics 2007;120:e1148--56.
Interim recommendations for the use of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) conjugate vaccines related to the recall of certain lots of Hib-containing vaccines.
MMWR 2007;56:1318--20.
Prevention of hepatitis A through active or passive immunization: recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 2006;55(No.
Newborn hepatitis B vaccination coverage among children born January 2003--June 2005---United States.
MMWR 2008;57:825--8.
Hepatitis A vaccination coverage among children aged 24--35 months---United States, 2006 and 2007.
MMWR 2009;58:689--94.
A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP); part 1: immunization of infants, children, and adolescents.
MMWR 2005;54(No.
Molinari N, Wolter KM, Skalland B, et al.
Quantifying bias in a health survey: an application of total survey error modeling to the National Immunization Survey.
Presented at the annual meeting of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, May 14--17, 2009, Hollywood, FL.
* The 17 local areas sampled separately for the 2008 NIS included six areas that receive federal immunization grant funds and have been included in the NIS every year since its inception in 1994 (District of Columbia; Chicago, Illinois; New York, New York; Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania; Bexar County, Texas; and Houston, Texas).
Also included were eight areas chosen by state grantees based on local need that had been included during 1996--2007 (Los Angeles County, California; northern California counties; Santa Clara County, California; Miami-Dade County, Florida; Baltimore, Maryland; Dallas County, Texas; El Paso County, Texas; and eastern/western Washington counties).
Also included were three areas sampled for the first time (Madison and St.
Clair counties, Illinois; Minneapolis/St.
Paul, Minnesota; and Orange County, Florida).
† ≥4 doses of diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and any acellular pertussis vaccine including diphtheria and tetanus toxoid vaccine or diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and pertussis vaccine, ≥3 doses of poliovirus vaccine; ≥1 dose of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine; ≥3 doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine; ≥3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine; and ≥1 dose of varicella vaccine.
§ Additional information about these health objectives is available at 
¶ In addition to the routinely recommended vaccines included in the 4:3:1:3:3:1 combined series, pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and rotavirus vaccine are two other vaccines that are recommended for young children.
Estimated coverage for rotavirus vaccine is not included in this report because the 2006 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendation did not apply to all children in the survey.
Rotavirus coverage will be reported for the first time in the 2009 NIS data in next year's report.
Additional information is available at 
** Race was self-reported.
Respondents identified as white, black, Asian, or American Indian/Alaska Native are all non-Hispanic.
Persons identified as Hispanic might be of any race.
Children identified as multiple race selected more than one race category.
†† The poverty status variable categorizes income into 1) at or above the poverty level and 2) below the poverty level.
Poverty level was based on 2007 U.S.
Census poverty thresholds, available at 
§§ Additional information on the Vaccines for Children program is available at 
¶¶ Previous coverage estimates for these antigens among different cohorts or different age groups as well as all NIS childhood estimates from 1996 to present are available at 
*** Additional information available at 
Estimated vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months (N = 18,430), by selected vaccines and dosages --- National Immunization Survey (NIS), United States, 2004--2008 2004* 2005† 2006§ 2007¶ 2008** Vaccine % (95% CI††) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) DTP/DT/DTaP§§ ≥3 doses 95.9 (±0.5) 96.1 (±0.5) 95.8 (±0.5) 95.5 (±0.5) 96.2 (±0.5) ≥4 doses 85.5 (±0.8) 85.7 (±0.9) 85.2 (±0.9) 84.5 (±0.9) 84.6 (±1.0) Poliovirus 91.6 (±0.7) 91.7 (±0.7) 92.8 (±0.6) 92.6 (±0.7) 93.6 (±0.6) MMR¶¶ ≥1 dose 93.0 (±0.6) 91.5 (±0.7) 92.3 (±0.6) 92.3 (±0.7) 92.1 (±0.7) Hib*** ≥3 doses 93.5 (±0.6) 93.9 (±0.6) 93.4 (±0.6) 92.6 (±0.7) 90.9 (±0.7) Hepatitis B ≥3 doses 92.4 (±0.6) 92.9 (±0.6) 93.3 (±0.6) 92.7 (±0.7) 93.5 (±0.7) 1 dose by 3 days (birth)††† 47.7 (±1.1) 49.6 (±1.2) 50.1 (±1.1) 53.2 (±1.3) 55.3 (±1.3) Varicella ≥1 dose 87.5 (±0.7) 87.9 (±0.8) 89.2 (±0.7) 90.0 (±0.7) 90.7 (±0.7) PCV7§§§ ≥3 doses 73.2 (±1.0) 82.8 (±1.0) 86.9 (±0.8) 90.0 (±0.8) 92.8 (±0.6) ≥4 doses 43.4 (±1.1) 53.7 (±1.3) 68.4 (±1.1) 75.3 (±1.2) 80.1 (±1.1) Hepatitis A ≥2 doses NA¶¶¶ NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 40.4 (±1.2) Combined series 4:3:1:3**** 82.5 (±0.9) 82.4 (±1.0) 82.1 (±1.0) 81.8 (±1.0) 79.6 (±1.0) 4:3:1:3:3†††† 80.9 (±0.9) 80.8 (±1.0) 80.5 (±1.0) 80.1 (±1.0) 78.2 (±1.1) 4:3:1:3:3:1§§§§ 76.0 (±1.0) 76.1 (±1.1) 76.9 (±1.0) 77.4 (±1.1) 76.1 (±1.1) 4:3:1:3:3:1:4¶¶¶¶ 38.4 (±1.1) 47.2 (±1.3) 60.1 (±1.2) 66.5 (±1.3) 68.4 (±1.2) Children who received no vaccinations 0.4 (±0.2) 0.4 (±0.1) 0.4 (±0.1) 0.6 (±0.2) 0.6 (±0.2) * Born during January 2001--July 2003.
† Born during February 2002--July 2004.
§ Born during January 2003--June 2005 (2006 estimates based on NIS dataset, which was rereleased on February 25, 2008, after correcting for Hispanic overcount in nine states).
¶ Born during January 2004--July 2006.
** Born during January 2005--June 2007.
†† Confidence interval.
§§ Diphtheria, tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccines, diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and diphtheria, tetanus toxoids, and any acellular pertussis vaccine.
¶¶ Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine.
*** Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine.
††† Hepatitis B vaccine administered between birth and age 3 days.
§§§ 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
¶¶¶ The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) expanded the recommendation of administering hepatitis A vaccine from ≥24 months to children aged 12--23 months in May 2006; therefore, ≥2 doses of hepatitis A coverage in the 2008 NIS is measured among children aged 19--35 months, and previous years of hepatitis A data among children age 19--35 months are not available.
Hepatitis A coverage among children aged 24--35 months, including the 2006 and 2007 NIS data, are available in MMWR 2009;58:689--94.
NIS data for 2003--2005 are available at 
**** ≥4 doses of DTaP, ≥3 doses of poliovirus vaccine, ≥1 dose of any measles-containing vaccine, ≥3 doses of Hib vaccine.
†††† 4:3:1:3 plus ≥3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine.
§§§§ 4:3:1:3:3 plus ≥1 dose of varicella vaccine.
¶¶¶¶ 4:3:1:3:3:1: plus ≥4 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
Estimated vaccination coverage for the 4:3:1:3:3:1* and 4:3:1:3:3:1:4† vaccination series and selected individual vaccines among children aged 19--35 months (N = 18,430), by state and selected local areas --- National Immunization Survey (NIS), United States, 2008§ ≥3 Hib¶ ≥1 HepB (birth)** ≥4 PCV†† ≥2 HepA§§ 4:3:1:3:3:1 4:3:1:3:3:1:4 State/Area % (95%CI¶¶) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) United States 90.9 (±0.7) 55.3 (±1.3) 80.1 (±1.1) 40.4 (±1.2) 76.1 (±1.1) 68.4 (±1.2) Alabama 91.3 (±4.0) 66.5 (±5.8) 76.3 (±6.2) 33.9 (±6.0) 75.1 (±6.1) 67.2 (±6.5) Alaska 89.6 (±4.1) 64.6 (±6.9) 77.6 (±6.0) 48.7 (±7.4) 69.2 (±6.9) 63.4 (±7.1) Arizona 91.5 (±4.0) 81.4 (±4.9) 79.0 (±6.2) 48.1 (±7.0) 76.4 (±6.3) 69.1 (±6.6) Arkansas 89.3 (±5.0) 73.8 (±6.6) 74.8 (±6.2) 22.4 (±5.6) 75.5 (±6.4) 64.9 (±6.8) California 94.1 (±2.3) 36.3 (±5.0) 83.0 (±3.9) 48.2 (±5.1) 78.7 (±4.2) 70.5 (±4.7) Los Angeles County 93.5 (±2.9) 32.4 (±5.9) 80.2 (±5.1) 52.6 (±6.2) 76.2 (±5.3) 67.6 (±5.9) Northern California counties 89.8 (±3.9) 14.2 (±5.0) 69.2 (±6.5) 29.8 (±6.9) 68.5 (±6.5) 58.1 (±7.0) Santa Clara County 91.4 (±5.6) 70.4 (±7.4) 85.3 (±5.2) 51.6 (±8.2) 80.9 (±6.7) 73.6 (±7.3) Rest of state 94.7 (±3.2) 36.0 (±7.1) 84.4 (±5.5) 46.6 (±7.3) 79.9 (±5.9) 71.8 (±6.7) Colorado 87.3 (±6.1) 48.7 (±8.9) 82.5 (±6.5) 42.4 (±9.0) 79.4 (±6.8) 74.3 (±7.3) Connecticut 82.6 (±6.2) 63.2 (±7.2) 91.5 (±3.9) 38.8 (±7.6) 69.8 (±7.2) 66.0 (±7.4) Delaware 87.5 (±4.8) 58.6 (±7.2) 79.8 (±6.3) 44.6 (±7.1) 71.8 (±6.8) 63.9 (±7.0) District of Columbia 90.7 (±4.6) 61.7 (±7.1) 78.8 (±5.7) 43.4 (±7.3) 77.6 (±6.4) 68.8 (±6.9) Florida 92.0 (±3.3) 40.7 (±6.7) 78.9 (±5.1) 40.6 (±6.4) 79.9 (±4.8) 71.0 (±5.5) Miami-Dade County 93.2 (±4.3) 26.5 (±6.6) 67.0 (±8.7) 26.5 (±6.7) 77.7 (±6.5) 59.2 (±8.6) Orange County 93.5 (±3.9) 55.3 (±8.0) 79.4 (±7.1) 31.9 (±7.4) 79.1 (±6.5) 69.8 (±7.8) Rest of state 91.7 (±4.1) 42.0 (±8.4) 81.1 (±6.3) 44.1 (±8.0) 80.3 (±6.0) 73.3 (±6.8) Georgia 86.1 (±5.1) 65.8 (±7.0) 81.6 (±5.8) 42.7 (±7.1) 71.9 (±6.9) 67.4 (±7.1) Hawaii 89.4 (±4.4) 68.3 (±7.2) 84.1 (±6.0) 43.6 (±7.4) 77.4 (±6.8) 74.4 (±6.9) Idaho 77.6 (±6.0) 64.0 (±6.6) 74.8 (±6.3) 38.6 (±6.5) 60.4 (±6.8) 54.2 (±6.7) Illinois 92.7 (±2.3) 56.4 (±5.1) 76.2 (±4.8) 26.2 (±4.1) 74.8 (±4.6) 65.0 (±5.1) City of Chicago 89.1 (±4.5) 75.0 (±5.8) 76.0 (±6.4) 36.2 (±6.4) 78.1 (±6.2) 70.4 (±6.6) Madison and St.
Clair counties 90.3 (±4.1) 74.8 (±5.5) 81.0 (±5.5) 33.6 (±6.3) 74.9 (±6.0) 68.4 (±6.4) Rest of state 94.1 (±2.7) 48.6 (±6.8) 76.0 (±6.3) 22.2 (±5.3) 73.6 (±6.1) 62.9 (±6.7) Indiana 89.3 (±4.2) 64.5 (±7.3) 79.5 (±6.0) 42.1 (±7.6) 75.5 (±6.1) 70.3 (±6.6) Iowa 88.4 (±4.5) 31.4 (±6.1) 81.6 (±5.5) 38.6 (±6.6) 74.7 (±6.0) 67.2 (±6.4) Kansas 93.7 (±3.0) 68.1 (±6.7) 80.7 (±5.2) 37.4 (±7.2) 76.7 (±5.9) 69.5 (±6.5) Kentucky 86.3 (±5.3) 74.4 (±6.2) 79.6 (±5.6) 33.9 (±6.4) 74.1 (±6.4) 66.4 (±6.7) Louisiana 92.9 (±3.2) 62.3 (±6.2) 78.0 (±5.5) 46.6 (±6.6) 81.9 (±4.6) 72.5 (±5.7) Maine 86.1 (±4.6) 66.8 (±6.1) 84.3 (±5.1) 16.8 (±4.9) 73.6 (±5.6) 66.5 (±6.2) Maryland 93.9 (±2.7) 67.8 (±5.7) 84.3 (±4.6) 46.2 (±6.2) 80.2 (±4.9) 73.6 (±5.7) City of Baltimore 88.7 (±4.4) 64.5 (±7.1) 81.8 (±5.6) 36.3 (±6.8) 74.6 (±6.0) 68.2 (±6.4) Rest of state 94.7 (±3.0) 68.2 (±6.4) 84.7 (±5.2) 47.6 (±7.0) 81.0 (±5.6) 74.3 (±6.4) Massachusetts 98.4 (±1.4) 66.8 (±7.3) 88.0 (±4.7) 39.6 (±7.5) 82.3 (±5.6) 76.2 (±6.3) Michigan 87.3 (±4.8) 75.7 (±6.2) 82.5 (±5.7) 29.1 (±6.0) 74.5 (±6.5) 69.8 (±6.8) Minnesota 85.8 (±4.3) 21.7 (±5.5) 79.2 (±5.2) 35.4 (±5.9) 74.6 (±5.3) 66.8 (±5.8) Minneapolis/St.
Paul 82.5 (±6.1) 10.6 (±4.8) 80.0 (±6.3) 40.2 (±7.1) 75.2 (±6.7) 68.5 (±7.0) Rest of state 90.0 (±5.6) NA*** NA 78.2 (±8.6) NA NA 73.8 (±8.7) 64.7 (±9.8) Mississippi 83.0 (±5.8) 67.3 (±5.9) 74.7 (±6.4) 27.3 (±5.4) 75.8 (±6.3) 68.9 (±6.5) Missouri 89.0 (±4.5) 56.2 (±6.6) 74.8 (±5.8) 36.7 (±6.4) 72.9 (±6.4) 61.5 (±6.7) Montana 81.1 (±5.6) 66.4 (±6.6) 71.7 (±6.4) 23.2 (±5.6) 59.2 (±6.8) 56.0 (±6.8) Nebraska 83.0 (±4.9) 31.0 (±6.0) 77.5 (±5.6) 52.2 (±6.5) 71.5 (±5.8) 63.0 (±6.3) Nevada 85.2 (±4.9) 65.5 (±6.6) 63.6 (±6.7) 45.9 (±7.0) 67.8 (±6.5) 54.2 (±7.0) New Hampshire 95.6 (±2.7) 69.0 (±6.0) 86.6 (±4.6) 41.0 (±6.6) 81.0 (±5.2) 74.6 (±5.9) New Jersey 94.7 (±3.5) 44.9 (±7.1) 74.8 (±6.3) 29.3 (±5.9) 68.5 (±6.3) 59.7 (±6.5) New Mexico 89.0 (±4.8) 52.3 (±7.6) 83.3 (±5.6) 36.2 (±7.2) 77.0 (±6.1) 72.9 (±6.4) New York 91.0 (±2.6) 34.4 (±4.8) 80.2 (±3.8) 32.9 (±4.6) 73.3 (±4.2) 65.1 (±4.5) City of New York 90.2 (±3.7) 35.8 (±6.8) 78.3 (±5.4) 36.4 (±6.6) 75.4 (±5.8) 66.6 (±6.4) Rest of state 91.7 (±3.7) 33.1 (±6.7) 82.0 (±5.3) 29.6 (±6.4) 71.3 (±6.1) 63.7 (±6.5) North Carolina 83.6 (±5.6) 72.2 (±6.3) 82.6 (±5.9) 35.7 (±6.1) 70.8 (±6.3) 64.4 (±6.6) North Dakota 85.2 (±4.8) 72.0 (±5.9) 80.9 (±5.4) 45.3 (±6.5) 69.8 (±6.1) 65.5 (±6.3) Ohio 95.2 (±4.7) 64.7 (±7.0) 78.6 (±6.4) 36.1 (±6.7) 81.8 (±6.1) 71.5 (±6.8) Oklahoma 86.3 (±5.8) 61.4 (±6.8) 65.7 (±7.5) 49.6 (±7.1) 71.7 (±6.9) 56.4 (±7.5) Oregon 87.2 (±5.9) 41.8 (±7.7) 79.4 (±7.0) 40.2 (±7.6) 71.0 (±7.4) 68.3 (±7.5) Pennsylvania 91.6 (±3.5) 67.0 (±5.5) 83.8 (±4.4) 51.7 (±5.7) 77.7 (±5.0) 71.3 (±5.4) Philadelphia County 94.8 (±2.8) 75.0 (±5.6) 79.7 (±5.2) 49.4 (±6.2) 79.5 (±5.2) 71.6 (±5.7) Rest of state 91.0 (±4.1) 65.5 (±6.4) 84.6 (±5.2) 52.1 (±6.7) 77.4 (±5.9) 71.2 (±6.4) Rhode Island 89.0 (±4.2) 69.4 (±7.1) 83.9 (±6.4) 57.4 (±7.8) 77.5 (±6.1) 68.6 (±7.4) South Carolina 90.2 (±4.1) 62.8 (±6.8) 80.5 (±5.7) 37.4 (±6.4) 78.4 (±5.4) 70.6 (±6.1) South Dakota 91.2 (±4.3) 40.5 (±6.6) 73.0 (±5.9) 27.5 (±5.7) 77.4 (±5.7) 62.7 (±6.4) See Table 2 footnotes on next page.
(Continued) Estimated vaccination coverage for the 4:3:1:3:3:1* and 4:3:1:3:3:1:4† vaccination series and selected individual vaccines among children aged 19--35 months (N = 18,430), by state and selected local areas --- National Immunization Survey (NIS), United States, 2008§ ≥3 Hib¶ ≥1 HepB (birth)** ≥4 PCV†† ≥2 HepA§§ 4:3:1:3:3:1 4:3:1:3:3:1:4 State/Area % (95%CI¶¶) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) % (95%CI) Tennessee 92.8 (±3.7) 35.8 (±6.4) 85.7 (±4.6) 47.9 (±7.0) 81.2 (±5.4) 73.6 (±6.0) Texas 92.7 (±3.5) 66.6 (±5.5) 79.2 (±5.1) 49.1 (±5.6) 77.8 (±4.7) 70.5 (±5.4) Bexar County 93.0 (±4.1) 63.2 (±6.8) 84.3 (±5.5) 51.1 (±7.5) 76.0 (±6.6) 70.9 (±6.9) City of Houston 90.4 (±4.5) 61.2 (±7.0) 76.9 (±6.1) 50.8 (±7.4) 72.0 (±6.7) 64.1 (±7.0) Dallas County 91.1 (±3.7) 68.2 (±6.4) 76.9 (±5.9) 46.8 (±6.9) 74.2 (±6.2) 69.0 (±6.5) El Paso County 95.1 (±2.5) 84.5 (±4.6) 77.2 (±5.4) 63.4 (±6.2) 74.9 (±5.4) 66.8 (±6.0) Rest of state 93.3 (±5.2) 66.6 (±8.2) 79.7 (±7.6) 48.1 (±8.3) 79.8 (±6.9) 72.1 (±7.9) Utah 90.6 (±5.2) 78.6 (±6.7) 76.3 (±7.6) 41.6 (±8.2) 76.6 (±7.3) 65.5 (±8.2) Vermont 92.6 (±4.1) 19.1 (±6.3) 84.1 (±5.3) 32.8 (±6.7) 64.5 (±6.8) 60.8 (±7.0) Virginia 92.6 (±5.5) 42.2 (±8.7) 81.7 (±7.2) 34.3 (±8.0) 72.9 (±8.3) 68.1 (±8.6) Washington 89.6 (±3.9) 72.6 (±5.3) 77.2 (±5.5) 36.0 (±5.8) 73.5 (±5.8) 67.3 (±6.2) Eastern/Western Washington counties 91.3 (±3.6) 71.8 (±6.3) 78.1 (±5.6) 31.6 (±6.4) 75.6 (±5.8) 68.7 (±6.4) Rest of state 88.8 (±5.3) 73.0 (±7.1) 76.9 (±7.5) 37.8 (±7.9) 72.6 (±7.9) 66.7 (±8.5) West Virginia 94.1 (±3.2) 55.3 (±7.2) 72.4 (±7.1) 34.8 (±6.2) 76.5 (±6.0) 62.8 (±7.3) Wisconsin 88.3 (±5.4) 55.8 (±7.6) 84.9 (±5.8) 37.2 (±7.1) 79.6 (±6.5) 72.6 (±7.2) Wyoming 80.7 (±5.4) 63.5 (±6.4) 69.2 (±6.2) 28.2 (±6.0) 64.6 (±6.4) 56.2 (±6.6) * Includes ≥4 doses of diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and any acellular pertussis vaccine (DTaP) (also can include diphtheria and tetanus toxoid vaccine or diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and pertussis vaccine); ≥3 doses of poliovirus vaccine; ≥1 doses of any measles-containing vaccine; ≥3 doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine; ≥3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine; and ≥1 dose of varicella vaccine.
† 4:3:1:3:3:1 plus ≥4 doses of 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7).
§ Children in the 2008 National Immunization Survey were born during January 2005--June 2007.
¶ ≥3 doses of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine.
4 doses of DTaP.
** ≥1 dose of hepatitis B vaccine administered between birth and age 3 days.
†† ≥4 doses of 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
§§ ≥2 doses of hepatitis A vaccine.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) expanded the recommendation of administering hepatitis A vaccine from ≥24 months to children aged 12--23 months in May 2006.
In the 2008 NIS, administration of ≥2 doses of hepatitis A vaccine is measured among children aged 19--35 months.
Previous years of hepatitis A data were measured among children aged 24--35 months.
¶¶ Confidence interval.
Estimated vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months (N = 18,430), by selected vaccines and dosages, race/ethnicity,* and poverty level† --- National Immunization Survey (NIS), United States, 2008§ White, non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic Hispanic American Indian/Alaska Native, non-Hispanic Asian, non-Hispanic Multiple race, non-Hispanic Below poverty At or above poverty Vaccine % (95% CI¶) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) % (95% CI) DTaP** ≥3 doses 96.2 (±0.5) 94.6 (±2.6) 96.6 (±0.9) 93.0 (±4.7) 98.6 (±1.4) 96.5 (±1.6) 94.1 (±1.5) 97.2 (±0.4) ≥4 doses 85.0 (±1.2) 80.1 (±3.4) 84.9 (±2.0) 82.0 (±7.2) 92.3 (±3.7) 87.6 (±3.2) 79.9 (±2.3) 86.8 (±1.0) Poliovirus ≥3 doses 93.6 (±0.8) 91.5 (±2.8) 94.3 (±1.2) 90.6 (±5.6) 96.5 (±2.1) 94.3 (±2.1) 91.8 (±1.6) 94.4 (±0.6) MMR†† ≥1 dose 91.3 (±1.0) 92.0 (±1.9) 92.8 (±1.4) 95.8 (±2.7) 94.7 (±2.5) 94.0 (±2.2) 92.3 (±1.4) 92.0 (±0.8) Hib§§ ≥3 doses 90.8 (±0.9) 88.6 (±2.9) 91.9 (±1.5) 88.9 (±5.4) 92.6 (±2.9) 89.9 (±2.9) 88.0 (±1.9) 92.2 (±0.7) Hepatitis B ≥3 doses 93.4 (±0.8) 92.1 (±2.8) 93.7 (±1.5) 91.5 (±5.3) 97.5 (±1.7) 94.9 (±2.1) 91.4 (±1.8) 94.4 (±0.6) 1 dose by 3 days (birth)¶¶ 54.7 (±1.5) 56.8 (±3.8) 54.1 (±2.9) 68.6 (±9.7) 57.2 (±7.2) 61.3 (±5.7) 57.0 (±2.8) 54.0 (±1.4) Varicella ≥1 dose 89.8 (±1.0) 90.4 (±2.2) 91.8 (±1.5) 93.8 (±3.1) 94.2 (±2.5) 90.9 (±2.8) 90.1 (±1.6) 91.1 (±0.8) PCV7*** ≥3 doses 92.8 (±0.7) 90.9 (±2.9) 94.1 (±1.2) 86.7 (±7.0) 91.2 (±3.0) 93.6 (±2.3) 90.7 (±1.6) 93.8 (±0.6) ≥4 doses 81.4 (±1.2) 76.4 (±3.4) 78.6 (±2.4) 70.6 (±8.9) 82.3 (±4.8) 85.4 (±3.5) 74.2 (±2.5) 82.8 (±1.1) Hepatitis A ≥2 doses 37.6 (±1.5) 39.7 (±3.7) 44.7 (±2.9) NA††† NA 47.4 (±7.4) 42.3 (±6.0) 39.7 (±2.6) 40.8 (±1.4) Combined series 4:3:1:3§§§ 79.3 (±1.3) 75.8 (±3.5) 80.7 (±2.2) 79.3 (±7.5) 84.8 (±4.6) 82.9 (±3.7) 75.4 (±2.4) 81.4 (±1.1) 4:3:1:3:3¶¶¶ 77.8 (±1.3) 74.2 (±3.5) 79.4 (±2.3) 78.7 (±7.6) 84.2 (±4.7) 81.5 (±3.9) 74.1 (±2.4) 80.0 (±1.1) 4:3:1:3:3:1**** 75.3 (±1.4) 72.7 (±3.5) 77.7 (±2.3) 77.3 (±7.6) 82.2 (±4.8) 79.3 (±4.1) 72.4 (±2.5) 77.7 (±1.2) 4:3:1:3:3:1:4†††† 68.2 (±1.5) 65.9 (±3.7) 68.5 (±2.7) 62.6 (±9.5) 73.5 (±5.9) 75.7 (±4.4) 63.1 (±2.7) 70.8 (±1.3) * Race/ethnicity categories are mutually exclusive.
Race group of Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islanders was not included because of small sample size.
† Poverty level is determined for all children based on 2007 U.S.
Census poverty thresholds, available at 
Children are classified into two levels of income: 1) at or above the poverty level, and 2) below the poverty level.
§ Children in the 2008 NIS were born during January 2005--June 2007.
¶ Confidence interval.
** Diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and any acellular pertussis vaccine, which can include diphtheria and tetanus toxoid vaccine or diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and pertussis vaccine.
†† Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine.
§§ Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine.
¶¶ Hepatitis B vaccine administered between birth and age 3 days.
*** 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
§§§ ≥4 doses of DTP/DT/DTaP, ≥3 doses of poliovirus vaccine, and ≥1 doses of any measles-containing vaccine, and ≥3 doses of Hib vaccine.
¶¶¶ 4:3:1:3 plus ≥3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine.
**** 4:3:1:3:3 plus ≥1 dose of varicella vaccine.
†††† 4:3:1:3:3:1 plus ≥4 doses of PCV7.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly March 21, 2008 / 57(11);289-291 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
IISs, previously known as immunization registries, are confidential, computerized information systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from multiple health-care providers, generate reminder and recall notifications, and assess vaccination coverage within a defined geographic area (1).
Most IISs have additional capabilities, such as vaccine management, adverse event reporting, maintenance of birth-to-death vaccination histories, and interoperability with other health information systems (1).
IISs can provide accurate data on which to make informed vaccination decisions and better protect against vaccine-preventable diseases (2).
This report highlights selected data from CDC's 2006 Immunization Information System Annual Report (IISAR), a survey of grantees in 50 states, five cities,* and the District of Columbia that receive funding under the Public Health Service Act.† The data indicated that 65% of all U.S.
The majority of grantees (70%) reported that their IISs have the capacity to track vaccinations for persons of all ages.
However, results for certain data completeness measures were low.
These findings underscore the need to continue to address challenges to full IIS participation and ensure high-quality information.
The 2006 IISAR, a self-administered, Internet-based questionnaire, was made available to immunization program managers as part of an annual reporting requirement.
The percentage of all U.S.
In 2006, approximately 15 million (65%) U.S.
Forty-seven (84%) grantees reported maintaining vaccination data in their IIS for persons aged 11--18 years, of whom approximately 22.3 million (66%) had two or more vaccinations recorded in an IIS.
IIS data quality measures include the timeliness of vaccination data submission to an IIS and two measures of completeness of National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) core data elements (3).
The first measure assesses the proportion of core data fields that are populated consistently in the IIS, and the second is a proxy measure for completeness of vaccination history for each IIS participant.
These 14 standardized core data elements, approved by NVAC (3,4), include demographic and vaccine event information.
The core data elements are designed to standardize a set of patient demographic and vaccine event elements that are necessary for data exchanges between IISs, identification and removal of duplicate records, and exchanges with other health information systems (3,4).
Completeness of data in IISs also is gauged by the proportion of children aged 19--35 months participating in an IIS who were recorded as having received the complete 4:3:1:3:3 series§ of recommended vaccine doses.
IISAR data for 2006 indicate that of the 3.7 million (62%) children aged 19--35 months participating in an IIS, an estimated 1.8 million (48%) had complete histories for the full 4:3:1:3:3 vaccination series.
Completeness of IIS vaccination histories varies substantially by state; however, nine grantees have complete 4:3:1:3:3 vaccination series that are comparable to traditional coverage survey rates for 2006.
Reported by: G Urquhart, MPH, B Rasulnia, PhD, J Kelly, Immunization Svcs Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Editorial Note: IISs are used increasingly for managing vaccine inventories, identifying pockets of need (i.e.
specific geographic areas within state or urban jurisdictions that contain large numbers of children who are either under-immunized or at risk for under-immunization), tracking vaccination histories for outbreaks and public health emergencies, and measuring uptake of newly recommended vaccines (4,6--8).
The findings in this report illustrate two major challenges for IISs: 35% of U.S.
Second, CDC has been encouraging CDC grantees to increase IIS child-participation rates by promoting IIS data use by health-care providers, schools, and health plans.
IIS data are used increasingly by school district administrative staff to assess compliance with school immunization laws.
Increased use of IIS data by school districts reduces the number of requests to provider practices for records of students who have been vaccinated.
By reporting complete and accurate vaccination data to an IIS, practices can reduce staff time required to produce or locate vaccination records or certificates (4).
A third strategy to increase IIS child-participation rates is to promote health plan use of IIS data for Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set (HEDIS) vaccination coverage measures, in lieu of using more costly chart reviews.
CDC has validated the usefulness of IIS data in supplementing NIS data, but noted that the quality and completeness of the registry data must be improved and must be comparable across all states before consideration can be given to supplement or replace provider-reported data in NIS (10).
The low percentages for five NVAC core data elements might be the result of IIS use of billing system data rather than more complete medical records.
Billing systems often do not collect core data elements such as vaccine manufacturer and lot number, and mother's first, maiden, and last names, which are needed to improve vaccination data quality.
CDC will promote increased interoperability between IISs and electronic medical record (EMR) systems through use of updated Health Level Seven¶ messaging standards and reduced use of clinical billing systems data.
Measures are under way to ensure that EMR standards for vaccination data facilitate links between EMR systems and IISs, thus facilitating recording of vaccination data in IIS.
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, data from the 2006 IISAR are self-reported, which might have resulted in reporting bias.
Grantees might, for example, miscalculate totals provided in response to some questions on the annual survey, although observations during site visits have found little or no bias.
Several grantees that had good responses in previous years missed reporting because they were installing new software programs.
As IISs continue to expand their capacity to collect information on persons of all ages, they will be important in assessing national vaccination coverage levels, identifying pockets of need, tracking vaccinations for outbreaks and public health emergencies, monitoring vaccine uptake for newly introduced vaccines or pandemic influenza vaccine, and managing vaccine inventories (4,6--8).
This report underscores the need for continued efforts to improve child participation and to ensure that IISs meet data quality measures for timeliness and completeness.
References CDC.
Immunization information system progress---United States, 2005.
MMWR 2006;55:1327--29.
Immunization registry strategic plan, 2002--2007.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2003.
Available at 
National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Development of community and state-based immunization registries: report of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 1999.
Available at 
Hinman AR, Urquhart GA, Strikas RA, and the National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Immunization information systems: National Vaccine Advisory Committee progress report, 2007.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2007;13:553--8.
Wooten KG, Darling N, Singleton JA, Shefer A.
National, state, and local area vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months---United States, 2006.
MMWR 2007;56:880--5.
Bartlett DL, Washington ML, Bryant A, Thurston N, Perfili CA.
Cost savings associated with using immunization information systems for vaccines for children administrative tasks.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2007;13:559--66.
Enger KS, Stokley S.
Meningococcal conjugate vaccine uptake, measured by Michigan's immunization registry.
J Adolesc Health 2007;40:398--404.
Boom JA, Dragsbaek AC, Nelson CS.
The success of an immunization information system in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
Pediatrics 2007;119:1213--7.
National Committee for Quality Assurance.
What is HEDIS?
Available at 
Khare M, Piccinino L, Barker LE, Linkins RW.
Assessment of immunization registry databases as supplemental sources of data to improve ascertainment of vaccination coverage estimates in the National Immunization Survey.
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2006;160:838--42.
* Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
† 42 USC Sect.
247b, Project grants for preventive health services.
§ 4 doses diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccines, 3 doses poliovirus vaccine, 1 dose measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine, 3 doses Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine, and 3 doses hepatitis B vaccine.
¶ Health Level Seven is an accredited organization that develops standards for the exchange of electronic health-care data.
Additional information is available at 
Table Return to top.
Figure Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site content CDC Home Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) MMWR Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Erratum: Vol.
5 Weekly February 19, 2010 / 59(06);166 In the report, "Progress in Immunization Information Systems --- United States, 2008," an error occurred in the figure on page 134.
The state of Maryland should be shaded to indicate a participation rate of 34%--66%.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset documents.
This conversion might result in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users are referred to the electronic PDF version ( and/or the original MMWR paper copy for printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
File Formats Help: How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
Weekly August 31, 2007 / 56(34);880-885 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
National, State, and Local Area Vaccination Coverage Among Children Aged 19--35 Months --- United States, 2006 Please note: An erratum has been published for this article.
To view the erratum, please click here.
However, national coverage estimates remained below the Healthy People 2010 target of 90% coverage for PCV, DTaP, and VAR and below the 80% target for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccine series (1).
No significant racial/ethnic disparities in 4:3:1:3:3:1 series coverage were observed after controlling for family income.
State and local immunization programs should continue to identify and target children who are not fully vaccinated, especially because of low socioeconomic status and other barriers.
To estimate coverage for all age-eligible children, NIS uses a quarterly, random-digit--dialed sample of telephone numbers for each survey area.
NIS methodology, including the weighting of respondents to represent the population of children aged 19--35 months, has been described previously (2).
During 2006, the household response rate (3) was 64.5%; a total of 21,044 children with provider-reported vaccination records were included in this report, representing 70.4% of all children with completed household interviews.
Statistical analyses were conducted using t tests and logistic regression modeling.
An income-to-poverty ratio variable§ was added to logistic regression models to control for racial/ethnic differences in family income, which was calculated using total household income, family size, and household composition and adjusted for annual cost of living using federal poverty guidelines (4).
Estimated national 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccine series coverage did not change significantly from 2005 (76.1%) to 2006 (77.0%).
In 2006, significant increases from 2005 levels were observed for PCV, VAR, and poliovirus vaccine (Table 1).
As in previous years, substantial differences were observed in vaccination coverage among states and local areas (5) for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccine series and individual vaccines.
Estimated coverage with the 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccine series ranged from 83.6% in Massachusetts to 59.5% in Nevada (Table 2).
Among local areas, 4:3:1:3:3:1 series coverage ranged from 81.4% in Boston, Massachusetts, to 65.2% in Detroit, Michigan.
MMR coverage by state ranged from 97.5% in North Carolina to 84.9% in Nevada (Table 2).
In 2006, vaccination coverage for the 4:3:1:3:3:1 vaccine series was 77.9% for white¶ children, 77.4% for Hispanic children, 75.9% for Asian children, 74.4% for American Indian/Alaska Native children, and 73.9% for black children (Table 3).
Series coverage was significantly lower overall for black children compared with white children.
A logistic regression model that controlled for differences in income across racial/ethnic groups revealed no significant difference in coverage between black and white children.
Estimated coverage levels in 2006 for poliovirus vaccine, MMR, Hib vaccine, and HepB were above 90% for all racial/ethnic groups except for American Indian/Alaska Native children for MMR (89.1%) and Asian children for Hib vaccine (89.4%).
For DTaP, the coverage disparity between black and white children was not significant after controlling for family income using the income-to-poverty ratio variable.
However, this disparity was not significant after analyses controlled for racial/ethnic differences in family income at or above the poverty level.
Reported by: KG Wooten, MA, N Darling, MPH, JA Singleton MS, A Shefer, MD, Immunization Svcs Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.
Editorial Note: Vaccination coverage in 2006 remained at or near record levels for routinely recommended childhood vaccines, but increases in DTaP, PCV, and VAR coverage are needed to reach the 90% Healthy People 2010 target for individual vaccines; these increases would contribute substantially to improved coverage with the 4:3:1:3:3:1 series, particularly among disadvantaged populations.
Although coverage with the fourth dose of PCV continued to increase in 2006, a significant disparity was observed among children who lived below the poverty level compared with children who lived at or above the poverty level.
Receipt of the fourth dose of PCV might have been deferred for some of the older children in the 2006 NIS cohort (i.e., those born during January 2003--June 2005) because of the vaccine shortage that ended in September 2004 (6).
Results from the 2005 NIS indicated no disparity in 4:3:1:3:3:1 series coverage between black and white children.
The results of the 2006 NIS indicate that disparities in coverage by poverty level, coupled with different income distributions among white and black populations, account for the observed coverage disparities between black and white children.
A previous report using 1999--2003 NIS data determined that socioeconomic factors had a similar effect on associations between vaccination coverage and race/ethnicity (7).
Children who live below the poverty level are less likely to be vaccinated than children who live at or above the poverty level.
The 1999--2003 report led to the development of a questionnaire module of socioeconomic variables that will be added to the NIS in 2008 and will be used to identify barriers to vaccination among racial/ethnic groups and socioeconomically disadvantaged populations.
Increasing overall vaccination coverage, eliminating coverage disparities associated with socioeconomic differences in families with children, and eliminating disparities among states and local areas remain high priorities for national, state, and local immunization programs.
Vaccination funding through the federal Vaccines for Children program (9) has contributed to record coverage levels among children who are uninsured or underinsured, but additional measures are needed to deliver vaccines to children who live below the poverty level.
The findings in this report are subject to at least three limitations.
First, because NIS is a telephone survey, results are weighted to be representative of all children aged 19--35 months.
Although statistical adjustments were made to account for nonresponse and households without landline telephones, some bias might remain.
Second, underestimates of vaccination coverage might have resulted from the exclusive use of provider-reported vaccination histories because completeness of these records is unknown.
Finally, although national estimates of vaccination coverage are precise, estimates for state and local areas should be interpreted with caution because their sample sizes are smaller and their confidence intervals generally are wider than those for national estimates.
Although vaccination-coverage estimates were above the Healthy People 2010 target among all racial/ethnic groups for most of the routinely recommended vaccines, continued collaboration among national, state, local, private, and public partners is needed to reach the 90% target for all vaccines by 2010.
Vaccination-coverage data gathered through NIS are used to identify children who are at risk for vaccine-preventable diseases, evaluate the effectiveness of programs designed to increase coverage levels, assess differential impact of vaccine shortages, and track uptake of new vaccines.
Expansion of NIS (e.g., adding local areas for coverage assessment; adding survey questions about health insurance coverage, day care participation, and parental beliefs and attitudes regarding vaccines; and including more expansive measures of socioeconomic status) will provide greater understanding of factors associated with low vaccination coverage, particularly those associated with socioeconomically disadvantaged populations.
References US Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy people 2010 (conference ed, in 2 vols).
Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2000.
Available at 
Smith PJ, Hoaglin DC, Battaglia MP, Khare M, Barker LE, CDC.
Statistical methodology of the National Immunization Survey, 1994--2002.
Vital Health Stat 2005;2(138).
Available at 
Ezzati-Rice, TM Frankel MR, Hoaglin DC, Loft JD, Coronado VG, Wright RA.
An alternative measure of response rate in random-digit-dialing surveys that screen for eligible subpopulations.
J Econ Soc Meas 2000;26:99--109.
US Census Bureau.
How the Census Bureau measures poverty (official measure).
Available at 
National, state, and urban area vaccination coverage among children aged 19--35 months---United States, 2005.
MMWR 2006;55:988--93.
Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine shortage resolved.
MMWR 2004;53:851--2.
Wooten KG, Luman ET, Barker LE.
Socioeconomic factors and persistent racial disparities in childhood vaccination.
Am J Health Behav 2007;31:434--45.
US Census Bureau.
American factfinder: 2005 American Community Survey, selected population profile.
Available at 
Vaccines for Children Program.
Available at 
* The 30 local areas separately sampled for the 2006 NIS included six areas that receive federal immunization grant funds and are included in the NIS sample every year (District of Columbia; Chicago, Illinois; New York, New York; Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania; Bexar County, Texas; and Houston, Texas); 18 areas that were included each year during 1994--2004 (Maricopa County, Arizona; Los Angeles County, California; San Diego County, California; Santa Clara County, California; Duval County, Florida; Miami-Dade County, Florida; Fulton and DeKalb counties, Georgia; Marion County, Indiana; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Detroit, Michigan; Newark, New Jersey; Cuyahoga County, Ohio; Shelby County, Tennessee; Dallas County, Texas; El Paso County, Texas; King County, Washington; and Milwaukee County, Wisconsin); and six areas sampled for the first time (northern California counties; Fresno County, California; eastern Kansas counties; southern New Mexico counties; Allegheny County, Pennsylvania; and eastern Washington counties).
† Also can include diphtheria and tetanus toxoid vaccine or diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and pertussis vaccine.
¶ For this report, persons identified as white, black, Asian, or American Indian/Alaska Native are all non-Hispanic.
Persons identified as Hispanic might be of any race.
Table 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly December 15, 2006 / 55(49);1327-1329 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Immunization Information Systems Progress --- United States, 2005 Immunization registries are confidential, computerized information systems that collect and consolidate vaccination data from multiple health-care providers, generate reminder and recall notifications, and assess vaccination coverage within a defined geographic area (1,2).
A registry with added capabilities, such as vaccine management, adverse event reporting, lifespan vaccination histories, and linkages with electronic data sources, is called an immunization information system (IIS) (3).
This report summarizes data from CDC's 2005 Immunization Information System Annual Report (IISAR), a survey of grantees in 50 states, five cities,† and the District of Columbia (DC) that receive funding under section 317b of the Public Health Service Act.
These data indicated that approximately 56% of U.S.
Moreover, 75% percent of public vaccination provider sites and 44% of private vaccination provider sites submitted vaccination data to an IIS during July--December 2005.
immunization programs.
The 2005 IISAR, a self-administered, Internet-based questionnaire, was available to immunization program managers as part of an annual reporting requirement.
census data.
The findings indicated that, of approximately 23 million U.S.
Eleven (20%) other IIS grantees (DC, Idaho, Iowa, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah, and Washington) had participation ranging from 81% to 94%.
Reported by: BC Canavan, M Kurilo, MPH, Oregon Dept of Human Svcs.
T Moss, Georgia Registry Immunization Transactions and Svcs.
R McLaren, MS, K Berry, MD, District of Columbia Dept of Health.
C Thomas, Trey Industries, Locust Grove, Virginia.
B Rasulnia, MPH, J Kelly, G Urquhart, MPH, Immunization Svcs Div, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (proposed), CDC.
Editorial Note: In 2005, approximately 56% of U.S.
In addition, IIS private-provider--site participation increased from 39% in 2004 to 44% in 2005.
IISs are being used increasingly as a decision-making tool for immunization programs and health-care providers to generate patient reminders and recalls, perform vaccine inventory management and distribution tasks, conduct routine public health surveillance, conduct school assessments, and identify clusters of undervaccinated children.
Data from IISs have been used by immunization programs to make more effective and timely decisions.
According to data in the Oregon IIS, approximately 3,100 children had received 1 or more doses of DTaP or TriHIBit®¶ (Sanofi Pasteur, Swiftwater, Pennsylvania) vaccine during the period in which the vaccines were improperly stored.
Within 8 days, Oregon IIS staff members had coordinated with the clinic to compile the necessary information to conduct a patient recall.
An estimated 3,100 families received notices to return for revaccination; 1,280 (41%) children returned to the clinic and received 1 or more doses of vaccine containing diphtheria and tetanus within 90 days after the notice was mailed.
The ability to share and exchange data with other information systems also has increased the usefulness of IISs for health insurance providers, health department clinics, Medicaid, and schools.
The ability to use IIS data to comply with school-entry laws has ensured up-to-date vaccinations for children and improved the quality of IIS data.
In 2005, a total of 38 (75%) grantees provided elementary schools with access to IIS data to monitor, document, and comply with school entry laws.
In 2003, the Georgia Registry of Immunization Transactions and Services (GRITS) formed a partnership with the Houston Hot Shots Coalition in Houston County, Georgia, to increase use of GRITS in kindergarten classes and elementary schools in Houston County.
Before 2003, annual kindergarten up-to-date vaccination rates for the Houston County Board of Education ranged from 67% to 90%.
After implementing the partnership's recommendation to use GRITS for the 2003--04 school year audit, the rate for all 22 elementary schools was 100%.
As a result of this success, the coalition presented the school superintendent with a proposal that GRITS be the official school-vaccination record for all students and that all students entering Houston County schools have their vaccination records validated by GRITS.
The coalition proposal was approved by the school superintendent and implemented for the 2006--07 school year.
In DC, the Department of Health collaborated with DC Public Schools (DCPS) and other partners on the DC School Immunization Project, which successfully monitored and documented school vaccination rates for the estimated 54,000 children enrolled in DCPS.
The project objectives were to 1) use local partnerships to link traditional and high-technology quality-improvement strategies to overcome limited resources and achieve higher school vaccination rates; 2) identify and track vaccination levels for all public school children; and 3) use the IIS for quality improvement and improvement of overall vaccination rates and accuracy.
DCPS provided the IIS with weekly enrollment files, which kept IIS staff members informed about new enrollees and allowed them to update vaccination rates.
In addition, health insurance providers in the DC area provided the IIS with electronic enrollment data monthly, and the IIS provided updated information on the vaccination status of enrollees, including a list, by school, of enrolled students who met vaccination requirements.
Before 2001, IISs were used for assessing DCPS vaccination compliance for entry to school and middle schools only.
After implementing schoolwide policies to use IISs, the proportion of students with documentation of DCPS-required vaccinations increased from 40% in June 2001 to 96% in June 2006.
The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations.
First, data from the 2005 IISAR are self-reported, which might have resulted in reporting bias.
Immunization programs that use IIS data have improved the quality of vaccination activities in various settings in Oregon, Georgia, and DC.
These examples illustrate the usefulness of IIS data for assessing program activities and measuring progress toward reaching immunization program goals.
As participation in IIS increases and data quality improves, data from IIS will improve the effectiveness and efficiency of immunization programs throughout the United States.
References National Vaccine Advisory Committee.
Development of community and state-based immunization registries: report of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC).
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 1999.
Available at 
Linkins RW.
Immunization registries: progress and challenges in reaching the 2010 national objective.
J Public Health Manag Pract 2001; 7:67--74.
Immunization information system progress---United States, 2004.
MMWR 2005;54:1156--7.
* Participation is defined as having two or more recorded vaccinations.
† Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas; New York City, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Antonio, Texas.
§ Number of provider vaccination sites (public and private) is based on grantee self-reports.
Figure Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly September 17, 2004 / 53(36);851-852 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine Shortage Resolved Since February 2004, CDC has recommended that 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7), marketed as Prevnar® and manufactured by Wyeth Vaccines (Collegeville, Pennsylvania), be administered to healthy children on an abbreviated schedule to conserve the limited supply (1--3).
Production capacity has been increased, and supply is now sufficient to meet the national demand for vaccine on the routine, 4-dose schedule.
Effective immediately, CDC, in consultation with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, recommends that providers resume administration of PCV7 according to the routine schedule (4--6).
A vaccination schedule is provided for children who are incompletely vaccinated (Table).
Because of the frequency of health-care provider visits by children during their first 18 months, catch-up vaccination might occur at regularly scheduled visits for most children who receive vaccines from their primary-care providers.
Programs that provide vaccinations but do not see children routinely for other reasons should consider a notification process to contact undervaccinated children.
Providers with questions about obtaining Prevnar® should contact Wyeth's customer service department, telephone 800-666-7248.
For public-purchased vaccine, including vaccines used in the Vaccines for Children Program, providers should contact their state/grantee immunization projects to obtain vaccine.
These projects should contact their project officers at the National Immunization Program at CDC for information regarding vaccine supply.
References CDC.
Limited supply of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: suspension of recommendation for fourth dose.
MMWR 2004;53:108--9.
Updated recommendations on the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: suspension of recommendation for third and fourth dose.
MMWR 2004;53:177--8.
Updated recommendations for use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: reinstatement of the third dose.
MMWR 2004;53:589--90.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Pneumococcal vaccination for cochlear implant candidates and recipients: updated recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2003;52:739--40.
Recommended childhood and adolescent immunization schedule---United States, July--December 2004.
MMWR 2004;53:Q1--3.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly August 8, 2003 / 52(31);739-740 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Pneumococcal Vaccination for Cochlear Implant Candidates and Recipients: Updated Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices On July 31, this report was posted on the MMWR website (
In October 2002, CDC recommended that all persons with cochlear implants receive age-appropriate pneumococcal vaccination with 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) (Prevnar®), 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) (Pneumovax®), or both according to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) schedules for persons at high risk (1).
CDC issued these recommendations on the basis of preliminary data suggesting an increased risk for pneumococcal meningitis in persons with cochlear implants.
Findings of a recent investigation by CDC, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and state health departments support this recommendation.
population of the same age (2).
Some children who are candidates for cochlear implants have pre-existing anatomic factors that might contribute to an increased risk for meningitis; however, the recent study was not designed to assess this association (2).
Children aged 24--59 months with cochlear implants who have not received PCV7 should be vaccinated according to the high-risk schedule; children with a lapse in vaccination should be vaccinated according to the catch-up schedule for persons at high risk issued after the PCV7 shortage resolved (3,4).
Persons aged 5--64 years with cochlear implants should receive PPV23 according to the schedule used for persons with chronic illnesses; a single dose is indicated (6).
Health-care providers should review vaccination records of their patients who are cochlear implant recipients or candidates to ensure that they have received pneumococcal vaccinations based on the age-appropriate schedules for persons at high risk.
In addition, all cases of meningitis should be reported to state health departments according to state requirements.
Because information about Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes causing pneumococcal meningitis in persons with cochlear implants is limited, providers are encouraged to send isolates to their state health department, which can forward isolates to CDC, where serotyping can be performed to determine whether the type is included in the vaccines.
To send an isolate, contact CDC's National Center for Infectious Diseases, telephone 404-639-2215.
Providers also are encouraged to report cases of meningitis in cochlear implant recipients to FDA's MedWatch.
Reports can be submitted online at  by telephone, 800-332-1088; by fax, 800-332-0178; or by mail, MedWatch, Food and Drug Administration, HF-2, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857.
Cases also can be reported directly to the device manufacturer.
References CDC.
Pneumococcal vaccination for cochlear implant recipients.
MMWR 2002;51:931.
Reefhuis J, Honein MA, Whitney CG, et al.
Risk of bacterial meningitis in children with cochlear implants, USA 1997--2002.
N Engl J Med 2003;349:433--43.
Food and Drug Administration.
Public health web notification: cochlear implant recipients may be at greater risk for meningitis.
Available at 
Preventing pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine shortage resolved.
MMWR 2003;52:446--7.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 1997;46(No.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly March 05, 2004 / 53(08);177-178 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Updated Recommendations on the Use of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine: Suspension of Recommendation for Third and Fourth Dose On March 2, this notice was posted on the MMWR website (
On February 13, 2004, CDC recommended that health-care providers temporarily suspend routine use of the fourth dose of 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) when vaccinating healthy children (1).
This action was taken to conserve vaccine and minimize the likelihood of shortages until Wyeth Vaccines, the only U.S.
supplier of PCV7 (marketed as Prevnar®), restores sufficient production capacity to meet the national need.
Since that recommendation, PCV7 production has been much less than expected because of continuing problems with the PCV7 vial-filling production line.
Shipments have been delayed, resulting in spot shortages that might continue beyond summer 2004 and become widespread.
Effective immediately, to further conserve vaccine, CDC recommends that all health-care providers temporarily suspend routine administration of both the third and fourth doses to healthy children.
Approximately 1.3 million doses of PCV7 are needed each month to provide every infant in the United States with the full, 4-dose vaccination series.
Limiting healthy children to 2 doses of PCV7 will conserve vaccine and permit more children to receive at least 2 doses.
More vaccine is expected to become available for distribution in May and June, but availability cannot be guaranteed.
CDC will continue to update health-care providers on the status of vaccine supplies while the shortage persists.
PCV7 is highly effective.
Efficacy data from a randomized, controlled trial suggest that 1--2 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine are protective during the 2-month interval before the next dose, with 86% effectiveness (but a 95% CI that includes zero) (2).
Although limited data support a 2-dose schedule among infants, this regimen is preferable to vaccinating certain children with 3 doses and not vaccinating others.
Because PCV7 is a new vaccine, no long-term data on vaccine effectiveness are available.
However, the incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease declines rapidly after age 2 years, even in unvaccinated children.
In 1998, before PCV7 was licensed, the incidence of invasive disease was 203 per 100,000 infants aged 1 year and 63 per 100,000 children aged 2 years (3).
To ensure that every child is protected against pneumococcal disease despite the PCV7 shortage, CDC, in consultation with the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, recommends that all health-care providers temporarily discontinue administering the third and fourth dose of PCV7 to healthy children.
Health-care providers should continue to administer the routine 4-dose series to children at increased risk for severe disease*.
Unvaccinated, healthy children aged 12--23 months should receive a single dose of PCV7.
This recommendation reflects CDC's assessment of the existing national PCV7 supply and will be changed if the supply changes.
Updated information about the national PCV7 supply is available from CDC at 
Health-care providers should maintain lists of children for whom conjugate vaccine has been deferred so it can be administered when the supply allows.
Because data on the long-term efficacy of 3-dose or 2-dose vaccine regimens are limited, health-care providers should consider the diagnosis of invasive pneumococcal disease in incompletely vaccinated children and are encouraged to report invasive pneumococcal disease after any regimen of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine to CDC through state health departments.
If a pneumococcal isolate is available from a vaccinated child, CDC will perform serotyping to determine whether the type is included in the vaccine.
Additional information is available from CDC at  and by telephone, 404-639-2215 or fax, 404-639-3970.
References CDC.
Limited supply of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: suspension of recommendation for fourth dose.
MMWR 2004;53:108--9.
Black S, Shinefeld H, Fireman B, et al.
Efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity of heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in children.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 2000;19:187--95.
Preventing pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Pneumococcal vaccination for cochlear implant candidates and recipients: updated recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2003;52:739--40.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Table 3.43.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2003 Red Book: Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases, 26th ed.
Elk Grove Village, Illinois: American Academy of Pediatrics, 2003.
* Including children with sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies, anatomic asplenia, chronic diseases (e.g., chronic cardiac and pulmonary disease and diabetes), cerebrospinal fluid leak, human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromising conditions, immunosuppressive chemotherapy or long-term systemic corticosteroid use; children who have undergone solid organ transplantation, and children who either have received or will receive cochlear implants (4).
All these children have been identified as being at either "high risk" or "presumed high risk" for severe invasive pneumoccocal disease (5).
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly April 30, 2004 / 53(16);Q1-Q3 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Recommended Childhood and Adolescent Immunization Schedule --- United States, July--December 2004 CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) periodically reviews the recommended childhood and adolescent immunization schedule to ensure that the schedule is current with changes in manufacturers’ vaccine formulations and reflects revised recommendations for the use of licensed vaccines, including those newly licensed.
Recommendations and format of the childhood and adolescent immunization schedule for January–June 2004 were approved by ACIP, the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and published in January 2004 (1).
This report updates that schedule with the recommendation that, beginning in fall 2004, children aged 6–23 months, as well as household and out-of-home caregivers for such children, receive annual influenza vaccine (2).
This change is reflected in the revised childhood and adolescent immunization schedule for July–December 2004 (Figure).
Changes in the Schedule for July– December 2004 The childhood and adolescent immunization schedule for July–December 2004 differs from the previous schedule in the following ways: The range of recommendations bar for influenza vaccine for children aged 6--23 months has been moved above the dotted red line, indicating that these children should be vaccinated annually.
The influenza vaccine footnote has been updated to highlight the recommendation that healthy children aged 6--23 months and close contacts of healthy children aged 0--23 months receive influenza vaccine because children in this age group are at substantially increased risk for influenza related hospitalizations.
The influenza vaccine footnote has been updated to highlight the recommendation that health-care workers and other persons (including household members) in close contact with persons in groups at high risk be vaccinated annually.
Vaccine Information Statements The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act requires that all health-care providers provide parents or patients with copies of Vaccine Information Statements before administering each dose of the vaccines listed in the schedule.
Additional information is available from state health departments and at 
Detailed recommendations for using vaccines are available from the manufacturers’ package inserts, ACIP statements on specific vaccines, and the 2003 Red Book (3).
ACIP statements for each recommended childhood vaccine can be viewed, downloaded, and printed from CDC’s National Immunization Program website at 
Instructions on the use of Vaccine Information Statements are available at  vis/vis-instructions.pdf.
In addition, guidance on how to obtain and complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) form is available at  or by telephone, 800-822-7967.
References CDC.
Recommended Childhood and Adolescent Immunization Schedule —United States, January–June 2004.
MMWR 2004;52:Q1--4.
Prevention and control of influenza: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 2004;53(RR):(in press).
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Active and passive immunization.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2003 Red Book: Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases, 26th ed.
Elk Grove Village, Illinois: American Academy of Pediatrics, 2003.
Figure Return to top.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports October 06, 2000 / 49(RR09);1-38 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Preventing Pneumococcal Disease Among Infants and Young Children Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Membership List, June 2000 CHAIR John F.
Modlin, M.D.
Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine Dartmouth Medical School Lebanon, New Hampshire EXECUTIVE SECRETARY Dixie E.
Snider, Jr., M.D., M.P.H.
Associate Director for Science Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, Georgia MEMBERS Dennis A.
Brooks, M.D., M.P.H.
Johnson Medical Center Baltimore, Maryland Richard D.
Clover, M.D.
University of Louisville School of Medicine Louisville, Kentucky Fernando A.
Guerra, M.D.
San Antonio Metropolitan Health District San Antonio, Texas Charles M.
Helms, M.D., Ph.D.
University of Iowa Hospital and Clinics Iowa City, Iowa David R.
Johnson, M.D., M.P.H.
Michigan Department of Community Health Lansing, Michigan Chinh T.
Kaiser Permanente Medical Center Santa Rosa, California Paul A.
Offit, M.D.
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Margaret B.
Rennels, M.D.
University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore, Maryland Lucy S.
Tompkins, M.D., Ph.D.
Stanford University Medical Center Stanford, California Bonnie M.
State University of New York Stony Brook, New York EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS James E.
Cheek, M.D., M.P.H.
Indian Health Service Albuquerque, New Mexico William Egan, Ph.D.
Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland Geoffrey S.
Evans, M.D.
Health Resources and Services Administration Rockville, Maryland T.
Randolph Graydon Health Care Financing Administration Baltimore, Maryland Carole Heilman, M.D.
National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Martin G.
Myers, M.D.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta, Georgia Kristin Lee Nichol, M.D., M.P.H.
VA Medical Center Minneapolis, Minnesota David H.
Trump, M.D., M.P.H.
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) Falls Church, Virginia LIAISON REPRESENTATIVE American Academy of Family Physicians Williams R.
Phillips, M.D., M.P.H.
Seattle, Washington Richard Zimmerman, M.D.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania American Academy of Pediatrics Larry Pickering, M.D.
Atlanta, Georgia Jon Abramson, M.D.
Winston-Salem, North Carolina American Association of Health Plans Eric K.
France, M.D.
Denver, Colorado American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Stanley A.
Louisville, Kentucky American College of Physicians Pierce Gardner, M.D.
Stony Brook, New York American Hospital Association William Schaffner, M.D.
Nashville, Tennessee American Medical Association H.
David Wilson, M.D.
Grand Forks, North Dakota Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine W.
Paul McKinney, M.D.
Louisville, Kentucky Biotechnology Industry Organization Vacant Canadian National Advisory Committee on Immunization Victor Marchessault, M.D.
Cumberland, Ontario, Canada Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee Jane D.
Siegel, M.D.
Dallas, Texas Infectious Diseases Society of America Samuel L.
Durham, North Carolina National Immunization Council and Child Health Program, Mexico Jose Ignacio Santos, M.D.
Mexico City, Mexico National Medical Association Rudolph E.
Jackson, M.D.
Atlanta, Georgia National Vaccine Advisory Committee Georges Peter, M.D.
Providence, Rhode Island Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Barbara J.
Collegeville, Pennsylvania The following CDC staff members prepared this report: Chris A.
Van Beneden, M.D., M.P.H.
Whitney, M.D., M.P.H.
Levine, Ph.D.
Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases National Center for Infectious Diseases Benjamin Schwartz, M.D.
Division of Epidemiology and Surveillance National Immunization Program in collaboration with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Working Group on Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccines Robert F.
Breiman, M.D.
National Vaccine Program Office Office of the Director, CDC Jay C.
Butler, M.D.
Arctic Investigations Program Orin S.
Levine, Ph.D.
Van Beneden, M.D., M.P.H.
Whitney, M.D., M.P.H.
Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases National Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC Benjamin Schwartz, M.D.
Division of Epidemiology and Surveillance National Immunization Program Stanley A.
University of Louisville School of Medicine Louisville, Kentucky Mary P.
Glode, M.D.
Children's Hospital and University of Colorado Health Sciences Center Denver, Colorado Neal Halsey, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health Baltimore, Maryland Charles M.
Helms, M.D., Ph.D.
University of Iowa College of Medicine Iowa City, Iowa David R.
Johnson, M.D., M.P.H., Working Group Chair Michigan Department of Community Health Lansing, Michigan Gary D.
Overturf, M.D.
University of New Mexico School of Medicine Albuquerque, New Mexico Karen Midthun, M.D.
Douglas Pratt, M.D., M.P.H.
Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland William Schaffner, M.D.
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine Nashville, Tennessee Jane D.
Siegel, M.D.
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center Dallas, Texas Richard K.
Zimmerman, M.D., M.P.H.
University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Summary In February 2000, a 7-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine (Prevnar,™ marketed by Wyeth Lederle Vaccines) was licensed for use among infants and young children.
CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends that the vaccine be used for all children aged 2--23 months and for children aged 24--59 months who are at increased risk for pneumococcal disease (e.g., children with sickle cell disease, human immunodeficiency virus infection, and other immunocompromising or chronic medical conditions).
ACIP also recommends that the vaccine be considered for all other children aged 24--59 months, with priority given to a) children aged 24--35 months, b) children who are of Alaska Native, American Indian, and African-American descent, and c) children who attend group day care centers.
This report includes ACIP's recommended vaccination schedule for infants at ages 2, 4, 6, and 12--15 months.
This report also includes a pneumococcal vaccination schedule for infants and young children who are beginning their vaccination series at an older age and for those who missed doses.
INTRODUCTION Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) remains a leading cause of serious illness among young children worldwide and is the most frequent cause of pneumonia, bacteremia, sinusitis, and acute otitis media (AOM).
In the United States, S.
The new 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7;** Prevnar,™ licensed in February 2000 and marketed by Wyeth Lederle Vaccines) should be a key addition to existing pneumococcal disease prevention measures.
Furthermore, PPV23 does not decrease nasopharyngeal carriage, a substantial source of transmission of pneumococci (4).
Only 12%--16% of patients with invasive pneumococcal disease among this age group have pneumonia (ABCs/EIP Network, unpublished data, 2000).
With the success of conjugate vaccines in preventing invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) disease, S.
pneumoniae has become the leading cause of bacterial meningitis in the United States.
Occurrence of Noninvasive Syndromes S.
pneumoniae also contributes substantially to noninvasive respiratory infections and is the most common bacterial cause of community-acquired pneumonia, AOM, and sinusitis among young children (10--16).
In two prospective studies of community-acquired pneumonia among young children, 17%--28% of cases were diagnosed as pneumococcal (10,11).
However, these and other studies probably underestimate the actual proportion of pneumococcal pneumonia cases as a result of low sensitivity of routine diagnostic testing.
Studies using diagnostic tympanocentesis among children with AOM have found S.
pneumoniae in 28%--55% of all middle ear aspirates (12--15).
By age 12 months, 62% of children have had at least one episode of AOM; peak incidence of AOM occurs during ages 6 months--1year (20).
During 1996, approximately 500,000 tympanostomy tubes were placed in children's ears in the United States (22).
AOM is also the leading reason for prescribing antibiotics during childhood, and use of antibiotics for treatment of AOM and sinusitis contributes substantially to increased antimicrobial resistance (23--25).
Children at Increased Risk for Pneumococcal Infections Racial and Ethnic Populations In the United States, higher rates of invasive pneumococcal disease occur among African-Americans, Alaska Natives, and specific American Indian populations, compared with whites (Table 1) (26--32).
The highest rates for any ethnic group in the United States are found among Navajo and Apache populations living on reservations in the southwestern United States.
Incidence among children aged 1--2 years in these populations is 557--2,396/100,000 (31,32).
In a case-control study of risk factors for invasive disease among young children, the association of race with disease risk was not statistically significant in an analysis that controlled for socioeconomic status (34).
However, other studies have reported persistence of increased risk when controlling for income (27,33,35--37).
Reasons for increased rates of disease among Alaska Natives, American Indians, and African-Americans are unclear but probably multifactorial.
Children with Functional or Anatomic Asplenia Other children at high risk for invasive pneumococcal disease include patients with SCD, other sickle hemoglobinopathies (e.g., hemoglobin S-C disease or S-ß-thalassemia), and those who are otherwise functionally or anatomically asplenic (38--40).
Although rates of pneumococcal infection among children with hemoglobin S-C disease are lower than rates among persons with SCD, rates are higher than among healthy children (41,42).
Rates of overall bacterial sepsis in other hemoglobinopathies (e.g., S-ß-thalassemia) have not been calculated but are estimated to be intermediate between those for hemoglobin S-C and hemoglobin SS diseases (40).
High risk for pneumococcal infections among persons with SCD is thought to be caused by the combination of low levels of circulating antibodies, splenic dysfunction, and complement deficiency, resulting in decreased clearance of encapsulated bacteria from the bloodstream (43,44).
The protective effect of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine among SCD patients, initially reported in a study published in 1977, has not been reproduced consistently by subsequent prospective or case-control studies (45--49).
HIV-Infected Children Children infected with HIV have a markedly increased risk for pneumococcal infection compared with those who are not HIV-infected (50,51).
Incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease is 6.1 cases/100 patient-years among HIV-infected children through age 7 years (54).
Children in Day Care Out-of-home day care increases the risk for invasive pneumococcal disease and AOM among children (34,55,56).
In a study of risk factors for invasive pneumococcal disease among children in the United States, attendance at a group day care center*** during the preceding 3 months was associated with an approximately 2.3-fold increase in invasive disease among children aged 12--23 months, and 3.2-fold increased risk among children aged 24--59 months (34).
In studies of otitis media resulting from all causes, risk for AOM was higher among children who attended day care outside the home compared with family day care (58,59), and risk for middle ear effusions increased with exposure to larger numbers of children in day care settings (60).
Younger age when starting day care also increases risk for experiencing recurrent AOM (59).
Antimicrobial Resistance Treatment of pneumococcal disease among young children is complicated by emergence of pneumococcal strains resistant to penicillin and other antibiotics (12,62).
In one nasopharyngeal carriage study among children in a rural Kentucky community, 59% of children attending day care centers carried penicillin-nonsusceptible S.
pneumoniae (64).
Recent day care attendance and recent antibiotic treatment are associated independently with invasive disease as a result of penicillin-resistant pneumococci (34).
Penicillin resistance has been associated with treatment failures in AOM and meningitis (12,67--69); these failures could be because of difficulty in achieving high antimicrobial concentrations in middle ear fluid and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (70).
Additional research is needed to determine the association between penicillin resistance and treatment failure in pneumococcal pneumonia or bacteremia among children (12,71--73).
Pneumococcal Serotypes The capsule of the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium consists of polysaccharides and constitutes a major virulence factor for the bacterium (74).
Antibodies directed against the capsular polysaccharide protect against infection; type-specific antibodies bind capsular antigens; and opsonization facilitates phagocytosis (75).
Knowledge of the distribution of pneumococcal serotypes causing disease is fundamental to evaluating the potential impact of a pneumococcal vaccine.
Currently, 90 serotypes of S.
pneumoniae have been identified on the basis of antigenic differences in their capsular polysaccharides (76).
The majority of serotypes cause serious disease, yet a relatively limited number of serotypes cause the majority of invasive pneumococcal infections.
The 10 most common serotypes are estimated to account for approximately 62% of invasive disease worldwide; however, ranking and serotype prevalence differ by age group and country (77).
Types 1 and 5 account for only a limited percentage of invasive isolates in the United States, but are more common in Western Europe and in certain developing countries (77,80,81).
Among 414 S.
pneumoniae isolates obtained from middle ear fluid cultures among children with AOM in Finland, 250 (60%) were caused by serotypes contained in PCV7 (83).
Antimicrobial resistance is detected most frequently among serotypes included in PCV7.
PNEUMOCOCCAL CONJUGATE VACCINE Advantages of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine: Immunologic Theory Bacterial polysaccharides, including those present on the pneumococcal capsule, are T-independent antigens.
T-independent antigens stimulate mature B-lymphocytes but not T-lymphocytes.
This type of antigen induces an immune system response that is neither long-lasting nor characterized by an anamnestic (i.e., booster) response upon subsequent challenge with native polysaccharides (84,85).
Polysaccharide vaccines fail to elicit a protective immune system response among infants and very young children because these children respond poorly to T-independent antigens.
Although antibody response to T-dependent antigens is present soon after birth, immune system responses to T-independent antigens develop during the first years of life.
Certain serotypes that cause the majority of pneumococcal disease among children (i.e., 6A, 14, 19F, and 23F) remain poorly immunogenic until approximately age 5 years (86).
Conjugation of polysaccharides to proteins changes the nature of the antipolysaccharide response from T-independent to T-dependent.
This antigen complex stimulates a T-helper--cell response, leading to a substantial primary response among infants and a strong booster response at reexposure (84).
Success of Hib conjugate vaccine in reducing by 95% incidence of invasive Hib disease among young children after the vaccine's introduction for use among infants in 1990 is one example of the potential efficacy of bacterial polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccines.
This herd-immunity effect was consistent with later observations that Hib conjugate vaccine interrupts transmission by reducing acquisition of carriage.
Pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, in contrast with polysaccharides, has been reported to reduce carriage and might lead to population effects beyond direct protection.
Vaccine Composition The 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (Prevnar) includes seven purified capsular polysaccharides of S.
pneumoniae, each coupled with a nontoxic variant of diphtheria toxin, CRM197 (CRM, cross-reactive material).
The vaccine contains approximately 2 µg each of capsular polysaccharide from serotypes 4, 9V, 14, 19F, and 23F, and oligosaccharide from 18C, 4 µg of serotype 6B, 20 µg of the carrier protein CRM197, and 0.125 mg of aluminum/0.5-ml dose as an aluminum phosphate adjuvant.
Prevnar contains no thimerosal or other preservative.
Immunogenicity Polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine induces type-specific antibodies that bind to polysaccharide on the surface of bacteria and enhance opsonization, phagocytosis, and killing of pneumococci.
The amount of antibody required to prevent either pneumococcal carriage or disease is unknown.
Additionally, quantitative measurement of total antibody concentration, as measured in the majority of pneumococcal antibody assays, might not correlate with the level of functional immune system response.
Functional measurements (e.g., opsonophagocytic activity) might be more appropriate than serum antibody concentrations for evaluating clinically relevant responses to pneumococcal vaccination (88).
Although specific levels of antibody or opsonophagocytic activity that correlate with protection against pneumococcal disease remain unknown, presence of type-specific antibody to capsular polysaccharide is associated with protection among adults.
Through measurement of total antibody concentrations, researchers have demonstrated that pneumococcal conjugate vaccines using several protein carriers are more immunogenic than PPV23 among young children (92--98).
Immunogenicity Studies Among Healthy Infants and Children In one study, 212 healthy infants were randomized to receive either PCV7 or an investigational meningococcal conjugate vaccine at ages 2, 4, 6, and 12--15 months.
Vaccination with PCV7 resulted in substantial increases in serum antibody concentrations to all seven serotypes compared with baseline concentrations.
The fourth dose resulted in an anamnestic response to each of the seven serotypes (95).
When measured 3--6 weeks after administration of PPV23, serum antibody geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) were higher among the PCV7 plus PPV23 group than among the PPV23-only group for all of the PCV7 serotypes, reaching statistical significance for serotypes 14 and 19F.
Serum antibody GMCs were similar between the two groups for serotypes 1 and 15B, two serotypes contained in PPV23 but not in PCV7, demonstrating that PCV7 did not interfere with the immune system response to PPV23.
After administration of PPV23, 4 of 11 subjects in the PCV7 plus PPV23 group and 2 of 11 in the PPV23-only group reported fever.
Rates and severity of local reactions to PPV23 did not differ between the two groups.
Both serum opsonic activity and total IgG antibodies were measured for two serotypes (i.e., 6B and 14), and both tests demonstrated substantial increases after the PPV23 booster.
HIV-Infected Children Data are limited regarding use of PCV7 among HIV-infected children.
However, in two studies using 5-valent formulations of greater antigen content (i.e., 10 µg each of serotypes 6B, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F oligosaccharides) and the same carrier protein, conjugate vaccine was demonstrated to be immunogenic among HIV-infected children (94,100).
Prevaccination CDC HIV classification and CD4 counts of the HIV-infected children were similar among the conjugate vaccine and PPV23 groups.
The vaccine was found to be immunogenic among both groups.
In both studies, no substantial difference in frequency of local or systemic reactions was reported among children who received the conjugate vaccine compared with control groups.
A 7-valent pneumococcal vaccine consisting of serotypes 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F linked with the outer membrane protein complex of Neisseria meningitidis was administered to Alaska Native, American Indian (i.e., Apache and Navajo), and non-Alaska Native/non-American Indian infants aged 2, 4, and 6 months, with a booster dose at age 15 months.
Response after three primary doses of vaccine was similar among all three groups of infants, except for serotypes 14 and 23F.
However, 1 month after the booster dose, serotype-specific GMCs increased to all seven serotypes among the three groups of infants when compared with the pneumococcal IgG GMCs before the booster dose.
Although a different conjugate-carrier protein was used, this study indicated that PCV7 immunogenicity among Alaska Natives and American Indians will likely be similar to immune system response among non-Alaska Natives/non-American Indians.
Prevnar is under evaluation in an efficacy study among American Indians, and study results are pending.
The results are summarized in the following section.
Other clinical efficacy trials using 7-, 9- and 11-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines are currently being conducted or are planned in the United States, South Africa, and certain other countries.
Outcomes to be measured in these studies include protective efficacy against overall mortality, pneumonia, invasive disease, AOM, and nasopharyngeal carriage of pneumococci.
Efficacy Trials In a prospective double-blind study among patients of a health maintenance organization in northern California, a total of 37,830 healthy children (i.e., without immune system disorders or serious chronic disease) were randomly assigned to receive either PCV7 or a control (meningococcal C conjugate) vaccine.
Vaccinations were administered at ages 2, 4, 6, and 12--15 months.
Routine, licensed vaccines**** were administered concurrently according to schedule.
Initially, diphtheria toxoid-tetanus toxoid whole-cell pertussis (DTwP) vaccine was included among the childhood vaccinations; however, during the study, use of acellular pertussis vaccine became routine.
Invasive pneumococcal disease was defined as an acute illness consistent with pneumococcal disease in a child from whom S.
pneumoniae was cultured from a normally sterile site (e.g., blood or CSF).
Cases were identified through active surveillance.
Additional cases have been identified since completion of the primary analysis.
When all cases of invasive disease were evaluated during follow-up analysis in April 1999, PCV7 was 97.4% (95% CI = 82.7%--99.9%) and 93.9% (95% CI = 79.6%--98.5%) efficacious against vaccine serotypes among children who were fully or partially vaccinated, respectively (Table 2).
Statistically significant serotype-specific protection also was reported for four of the seven vaccine serotypes (i.e., 19F, 14, 18C, and 23F).
The study's ability to evaluate efficacy for the remaining three serotypes was limited because too few cases were caused by these serotypes in either treatment group (7).
No evidence existed of an increase in invasive disease caused by nonvaccine serotypes.
To examine effectiveness of PCV7 in preventing pneumonia of any etiology among the study population as a secondary outcome, investigators reviewed hospital, outpatient, and emergency room records of the children in the study.
Cases of clinical pneumonia accompanied by an X-ray with any evidence of an infiltrate were reduced by 33.0% (95% CI = 7.3%--51.5%).
Effectiveness of PCV7 in preventing health-care visits for AOM from all causes, including risk for first AOM episode, frequent AOM episodes, and tympanostomy tube placement, was assessed as a secondary outcome in the Northern California Kaiser Permanente efficacy trial.
Episodes of physician-diagnosed AOM among the study population were identified retrospectively through computerized databases of clinic and emergency room encounters.
A substantial reduction in episodes of AOM was found.
Vaccine impact was greatest for frequent otitis and tympanostomy tube placement (Table 3) (7).
Among a subset of study children with spontaneously ruptured tympanic membranes, S.
The ability of PCV7 to protect children against AOM was also evaluated in an efficacy trial conducted in Finland (103).
Children (N = 1,662) were randomized to receive either PCV7 or hepatitis B (control) vaccine at ages 2, 4, 6, and 12 months.
Outcomes measured included AOM with concurrent myringotomy to establish bacterial diagnosis.
Investigators reported 2,596 AOM episodes during the follow-up period in perprotocol analysis.
Of these, 357 episodes were caused by vaccine-serotype pneumococci.
A total of 107 episodes occurred among the PCV7 group, and 250 among the control group, for an estimated efficacy of 57% (95% CI = 44%--67%) against culture-confirmed AOM caused by vaccine serotypes.
The estimated percent efficacy was lower for outcomes that included nonvaccine pneumococcal serotypes or other pathogens causing AOM.
For prevention of AOM caused by pneumococci of any serotype, efficacy was estimated to be 34% (95% CI = 21%--45%), and efficacy against AOM irrespective of etiology was 6% (95% CI = -4%--16%) (83).
Further analysis revealed an efficacy against vaccine-related serotypes (i.e., 6A, 9N, 18B, 19A, and 23A) of 51% (95% CI = 27%--67%).
An increase of 33% in the rate of AOM episodes caused by nonvaccine serotypes occurred among the group who received PCV7 compared with the control group.
However, in spite of the increase in disease caused by nonvaccine serotypes, the net effect regarding pneumococcal AOM was a reduction of 34%.
Effect on Antimicrobial Use Prevention of pneumococcal infections among young children after widespread use of PCV7 might result in decreased use of antibiotics, as reported in the Northern California Kaiser Permanente vaccine efficacy trial where a 5.3% reduction was reported among the group of children who received PCV7 (104).
A reduction in antibiotic use might slow or reverse the trend of increasing prevalence of antimicrobial resistance among pneumococci.
Other Studies of Vaccine Impact Hib conjugate vaccines reduce acquisition of nasopharyngeal carriage of the bacterium among infants and children, an effect that is thought to contribute to the success of Hib vaccination programs by providing herd immunity (105).
A 40% and 50% reduction of vaccine-serotype S.
pneumoniae carriage has been reported in studies of a 9-valent CRM197 pneumococcal conjugate vaccine conducted in Israel and South Africa, respectively (5,6).
In both studies, vaccination resulted in a reduction in nasopharyngeal carriage of vaccine-type pneumococci and a simultaneous increase in detection of carriage of pneumococci of nonvaccine serotypes.
Whether this represents true replacement or unmasking of serotypes that were also colonizing the nasopharynx is unknown.
Additional information regarding the impact of PCV7 on nasopharyngeal carriage is expected from a future efficacy trial among Navajo and Apache populations.
In a double-blind, randomized study of a 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine containing the CRM197 carrier among healthy toddlers attending day care centers in Israel, conjugate vaccine or control (meningococcal C conjugate) vaccine was administered to children in two age groups, 12--17 months (two doses) and 18--35 months (one dose).
Primary outcomes were carriage rates of vaccine serotype- and penicillin-resistant pneumococci.
After 21 months of follow-up, carriage rates of vaccine-serotype pneumococci were substantially lower among toddlers who were vaccinated with 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine compared with the control group.
For both vaccine-serotype and penicillin-resistant S.
The study also reported herd immunity within families; siblings of 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine recipients were substantially less likely to carry antibiotic-resistant pneumococci compared with siblings of control-vaccine recipients (106).
Duration of Protection Duration of protection after vaccination with PCV7 is unknown.
However, immunologic memory does occur.
Additional studies of PCV7 with longer follow-up periods are needed.
Evaluation of duration of protection will be critical for older children at high risk for disease (e.g., those with SCD or HIV infection).
Cost-Benefit Analysis Costs and benefits of a routine PCV7 program for healthy U.S.
infants and children were evaluated in a study using current estimates of pneumococcal disease burden (i.e., meningitis, bacteremia, pneumonia, and AOM episodes), clinical outcomes, vaccine efficacy, and health-care costs (107).
Sources of clinical outcomes and costs included published and unpublished data, expert consensus, and computerized databases from Kaiser Permanente of Northern California.
For each annual U.S.
In a recent reanalysis of cost-effectiveness of PCV7 using additional and updated information (including newly available safety data, national costs, and rates of tympanostomy tube placement), the same investigators found that break-even costs for vaccination of infants from societal and health-care--payer perspective were $40 and $17, respectively (108).
Vaccine Safety Safety of Administration of PCV7 Series Among Infants Rates and types of adverse events associated with PCV7 administered at ages 2, 4, 6, and 12--15 months are acceptable when compared with the demonstrated benefits of vaccination.
In the Northern California Kaiser Permanente efficacy trial, rates of adverse events were compared between children who received PCV7 and those who received the control vaccine (investigational group C meningococcal conjugate).
Routine childhood vaccines were administered concurrently with PCV7 and control vaccines.***** To assess vaccine safety, information regarding local and systemic reactions was collected at 48--72 hours and 14 days after each dose.
Using telephone interviews, investigators collected adverse-event histories for two subsets of the study population --- initially a group receiving DTwP (N = 6,000) and later a group receiving diphtheria toxoid-tetanus toxoid acellular pertussis (DTaP) vaccine (N = 1,500).
PCV7 vaccination resulted in less frequent local reactions than DTwP vaccine, but more frequent local reactions than DTaP vaccine and the control vaccine.
Except for erythema, no pattern of increasing local reactogenicity with subsequent doses of PCV7 was reported (Table 4).
This difference was statistically significant after each dose of vaccine in the primary series but not the fourth dose (Table 5).
Febrile seizures after vaccination were slightly more common in the PCV7 group; however, the majority of events occurred when whole-cell pertussis vaccine was administered concurrently with PCV7.
Of the eight PCV7 recipients who had a seizure, seven had received concurrent DTwP vaccine.
As of April 20, 1999, a total of 32 children who were originally enrolled in the study had died (109); however, none of the deaths were reported by investigators to be related to the vaccine.
These rates are less than expected historically; 0.5 cases/1,000 children were observed in California in 1996 and 1997.
One death attributable to SIDS occurred within the first week of vaccination in a child who received PCV7 concurrently with other vaccines.
Safety of Administration of PCV7 Among Older Children Safety data are available from four immunogenicity studies of PCV7 among older infants and children (109).
Approximately 900 doses of PCV7 were administered to 560 children aged 7 months--9 years following the recommended schedule for vaccination administration for children who are beyond the age of the infant schedule.
No distinct, age-related patterns of systemic reactions was evident.
Fussiness was the most commonly observed systemic reaction (Tables 6,7).
Safety of Administration of PCV7 After PPV23 Minimal safety data are available regarding the sequence of PPV23 followed by PCV7.
However, in one published study of children and young adults with SCD, 16 of the study participants had already received one dose of PPV23 3--15 years previously (persons who had received PPV23 within the previous 2 years were excluded).
Of these 16 SCD patients, 9 who had received two doses of PCV7 followed by one dose of PPV23 8 weeks later were compared with 7 who had received one dose of PPV23.
No severe reactions were reported; local reactions were similar between the two groups (93).
Populations studied included healthy infants and children (92,96), HIV-infected children and young adults (94), and infants and children with SCD (93,99).
PPV23 was administered 6 weeks--20 months after pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
Adverse events were described in three of the five studies.
No serious adverse events were identified after the dose of PPV23.
No increase in adverse events was reported among HIV-infected persons who received 5-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine followed by PPV23 as compared with those who received PPV23 alone (94).
Among children with SCD who received either PCV7 followed by PPV23 or PPV23 alone, fever occurred among 4 of 11 and 2 of 11 children, respectively.
Local reactions did not differ between the two groups (93).
PPV23 Revaccination No published studies have been designed specifically to examine adverse events among children who were administered a second dose of PPV23 after an earlier dose of PPV23.
However, in the previously described study (93) in which young children and adults with SCD were vaccinated with either PCV7 and PPV23 consecutively or PPV23 alone, 16 of 23 enrolled patients had been vaccinated with one dose of PPV23 3--15 years earlier.
All patients were randomized to receive either one dose of PPV23 or two doses of PCV7 followed by a booster dose of PPV23 8 weeks later.
No severe reactions were reported after the second dose of PPV23.
Vaccine Administration PCV7 is administered intramuscularly as a 0.5-ml dose.
PCV7 can be administered at the same time as other routine childhood vaccinations in a separate syringe at a separate injection site.
In clinical studies of PCV7, when routine childhood vaccinations were administered simultaneously with PCV7 vaccine but at different sites, suppression of Hib response occurred after the fourth dose.
Additionally, a limited decrease in antibody response to poliovirus Type 1 occurred; however, clinical significance of these decreased responses is uncertain (109,111).
Conjugate vaccines containing diphtheria toxoid or protein as carriers (e.g., CRM197) should not be considered immunizing agents against diphtheria.
Thus, no change in the vaccination schedule for DTaP vaccine is currently recommended.
Simultaneous administration of PCV7 with other vaccines at the 2-, 4-, and 6-month visits might necessitate five injections at each visit.
Physicians might consider potential approaches to decreasing the number of simultaneous injections that are needed.
One approach is to administer the first two doses of hepatitis B vaccine at birth and age 1 month.
Alternatively, a Hib-hepatitis B combination product is available for use at ages 2, 4, and 12--15 months.
An option to decrease the number of simultaneous injections when the fourth dose is administered would be to divide needed injections between visits at ages 12 months and 15 or 18 months.
Combination vaccine products currently being evaluated by manufacturers might further decrease the need for multiple injections.
Precautions and Contraindications Vaccination with PCV7 is contraindicated among persons known to have a hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine.
Health-care providers can choose to delay vaccination of children with moderate or severe illness until the child has recovered, although minor illnesses (e.g., mild upper-respiratory infection with or without low-grade fever) are not contraindications to vaccination.
Any adverse event suspected to be associated with PCV7 vaccination should be reported to the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS).****** Concurrent administration of PCV7 and PPV23 is not recommended because safety and efficacy of concurrent vaccination has not been studied.
PCV7 is safe and highly efficacious in preventing invasive disease, and it is effective in preventing a portion of AOM cases and pneumonia among healthy infants and young children (Strength of evidence: children aged 2--6 months, A;******* children aged 7--23 months, B) (Table 9).
Vaccination Schedule.
Newborns should begin the schedule at age 2 months, although PCV7 can be administered as young as age 6 weeks.
For infants with prolonged nursery stays, initiation of vaccination should begin during discharge planning.
Interruption of the vaccination schedule does not require reinstitution of the entire series or the addition of extra doses (Table 11).
Children Aged 24--59 Months Who Are at High Risk for Pneumococcal Infection Children aged 24--59 months should receive PCV7 vaccination if they are at high risk for pneumococcal infection caused by an underlying medical condition (Table 8).
This recommendation applies to the following groups: children with SCD and other sickle cell hemoglobinopathies, including hemoglobin SS, hemoglobin S-C, or hemoglobin S-ß-thalassemia, or children who are functionally or anatomically asplenic; children with HIV infection; children who have chronic disease, including chronic cardiac and pulmonary disease (excluding asthma), diabetes mellitus, or CSF leak; and children with immunocompromising conditions, including a) malignancies (e.g., leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease); b) chronic renal failure or nephrotic syndrome; c) those children receiving immunosuppressive chemotherapy, including long-term systemic corticosteroids; and d) those children who have received a solid organ transplant.******** Immunogenicity and safety studies have been conducted using PCV7 among children with SCD (93,97,99) and a 5-valent conjugate vaccine among children with HIV infection (94,100) (Strength of evidence: B).
The efficacy of PCV7 among children with chronic disease or who are immunocompromised has not been evaluated, but effectiveness is anticipated on the basis of studies conducted in other groups (Strength of evidence: C).
Vaccination Schedule.
The recommendation for two PCV7 doses is based on results of an immunogenicity study conducted among SCD patients.
That study reported that a nonstatistically significant antibody response to serotype 6B after one dose of PCV7 increased statistically significantly after a second dose of PCV7 (93).
Serotype 6B is one of the most common pneumococcal serotypes colonizing or causing invasive disease among SCD patients and healthy children (47,112--114).
Protective efficacy of PCV7 for children with SCD has not been studied, and the vaccine does not protect against all serotypes causing disease.
However, penicillin prophylaxis substantially reduces the risk for invasive pneumococcal infections among SCD patients (112).
Other Children Who Might Benefit from Vaccination with PCV7 ACIP recommends that health-care providers consider PCV7 vaccination for all other children aged 24--59 months, with priority given to the following populations: children aged 24--35 months; children of Alaska Native or American Indian descent; children of African-American descent; children who attend group day care centers;********* This recommendation is made on the basis of the moderate risk for pneumococcal disease, including antibiotic-resistant infections, among these populations and on potential cost-benefit.
Data regarding efficacy and immunogenicity of PCV7 are limited for these specific risk and age groups.
However, the vaccine is safe and immunogenic among all healthy children aged 24--59 months.
However, the conjugate vaccine has advantages over PPV23, which include induction of immune system memory (possibly resulting in longer duration of protection), reduction in carriage, probable higher efficacy against serotypes causing most invasive disease, and probable effectiveness against noninvasive syndromes (e.g., nonbacteremic pneumonia and AOM).
If pneumococcal vaccine is to be used among healthy children aged 24--59 months, ACIP recommends that PCV7 be used.
Vaccination Schedules.
ACIP recommends that one dose of PCV7 be considered for Alaska Native and American Indian children aged 24--59 months.
However, use of PCV7 among these children offers multiple potential advantages over PPV23 as previously discussed.
In contrast, PPV23 offers potentially broader serotype coverage.
Recent studies demonstrate that only 68% and 57% of invasive infections among Alaska Natives and American Indians in the U.S.
Southwest aged 24--59 months, respectively, were caused by serotypes included in the 7-valent conjugate vaccine, lower proportions than among non-Alaska Native/non-American Indian populations (115,116).
Therefore, vaccination program personnel and other health-care providers might consider whether Alaska Native and American Indian children aged 24--59 months would benefit by the additional coverage provided by the 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine.
Data are limited regarding safety and immunogenicity of PPV23 after PCV7.
A community-randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of PCV7 among Navajo and Apache children in preventing pneumococcal disease is underway.
Future recommendations for use of PCV7 among Alaska Native and American Indian populations might be modified on the basis of that trial.
ACIP recommends that physicians consider administering one dose of PCV7 to their African-American pediatric patients aged 24--59 months because of their increased risk for pneumococcal infection.
The proportion of invasive pneumococcal disease among African-American children that is caused by PCV7 serotypes does not differ from whites in the United States, and rates of invasive disease decline with age (ABCs/EIP Network, unpublished data, 2000).
Therefore, no additional vaccination with PPV23 is recommended (Strength of evidence: B).
Additionally, because of increased risk for invasive pneumococcal disease, colonization with antibiotic-resistant pneumococcal strains, and AOM, health-care providers should consider administering one dose of PCV7 to previously unvaccinated children aged 24--59 months who attend group day care centers.
However, limited studies report that a) 5-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine is immunogenic among HIV-infected children aged 2--9 years (94); b) PCV7 is immunogenic among children aged 2--13 years with recurrent respiratory infections (117); and c) PCV7 is immunogenic among older children and adults aged 4--30 years with SCD (93).
Administering PCV7 to older children with high-risk conditions is not contraindicated.
Also, the proportion of invasive pneumococcal isolates covered by PCV7 is only 50%--60% among older children and adults, in contrast with 80%--90% coverage by PPV23 among this older group.
Therefore, current data do not support a recommendation to replace PPV23 with PCV7 among older children and adults.
Recommendations for Use of PCV7 Among Children Previously Vaccinated with PPV23 Children aged 24--59 months who are at high risk for pneumococcal disease and who have already received PPV23 (i.e., children with SCD, HIV infection, or who have other immunocompromising illnesses or chronic diseases) could benefit from the immunologic priming and T-cell--dependent immune system response induced by PCV7.
Thus, among children in these groups at high risk, sequential use of the two pneumococcal vaccines can provide additional protection.
Providers should be aware that minimal safety data are available regarding this vaccine sequence.
These groups at high risk include children with SCD, children with functional or anatomic asplenia, children who are HIV-infected, and children who have immunocompromising or chronic diseases (1) (Table 8).
Although data regarding safety of PPV23 administered after PCV7 are limited, the opportunity to provide additional serotype coverage among these children at very high risk justifies use of the vaccines sequentially.
For children of Alaska Native or American Indian descent, addition of PPV23 after PCV7 can be considered.
Revaccination with PPV23 Immunocompromised children or children with SCD or functional or anatomic asplenia should be revaccinated with PPV23 as previously recommended (1) (Table 12).
Data are limited regarding adverse events related to a second dose of PPV23 administered after PCV7.
Health-care providers should not administer a second dose of PPV23 any earlier than 3 years after the initial dose of PPV23.
AREAS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH With recent licensure and introduction of PCV7, close monitoring of disease trends and long-term vaccine safety will be high priorities for public health organizations and health-care providers.
Postlicensure surveillance will be necessary to a) detect potential changes in serotype distribution, including any increase in disease caused by serotypes not contained in PCV7; b) follow trends in antimicrobial resistance and antibiotic use; c) detect potential herd immunity induced by widespread use of PCV7; and d) track vaccine-related health events.
Areas where research is ongoing or necessary to determine the most effective use of PCV7 include the following: Optimal vaccination schedule for older children at high risk.
Research is critical regarding optimal scheduling of vaccination with PCV7 among children who have already received PPV23 and revaccination with PPV23 after vaccination with PCV7.
Combined vaccines including PCV7 and other routine vaccines for infants.
Reducing the number of required separate injections would improve the infant vaccination schedule.
Additional research is needed to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of PCV7 when administered in combination with other antigens.
Studies of safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy among adults at high risk for pneumococcal infection.
Additional studies are needed to evaluate potential use of PCV7 among adults at increased risk for pneumococcal infection.
Benefits and risks involved with using a 7-, 9-, 11-, or 15-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in place of or in addition to PPV23 warrant further investigation.
Rationale for additional study of a combined or sequential regimen includes potential benefits of conjugate pneumococcal vaccines (e.g., induction of immunologic memory with increased duration of protection, reduction of nasopharyngeal carriage of pneumococci, and potential impact on nonbacteremic pneumonia) along with the benefit of broader serotype coverage provided by PPV23.
Duration of protection.
For persons of all age groups, duration of protection after vaccination with PCV7 is unknown.
Investigation of potential need for revaccination with PCV7 or PPV23 after primary vaccination is warranted.
Identifying and defining immune system correlates of protection.
Type-specific antibody concentration necessary to confer protection against pneumococcal infection is unknown.
Researchers are attempting to determine and standardize the level of antibody, as measured by ELISA, that provides serotype-specific protection against pneumococcal disease.
Functional tests of induced immune system response (e.g., opsonophagocytosis) are also being evaluated.
A determination of immunologic markers that best correlate with clinical protection is needed.
Validated immune system correlates of protection will accelerate evaluation and licensure of new vaccines against pneumococcal infection.
Alternative pneumococcal vaccines.
Research is ongoing regarding development of alternative pneumococcal vaccines.
Investigators are evaluating possible roles of conserved pneumococcal proteins (e.g., pneumolysin, surface protein A, or surface adhesion A) as antigens that have potential to provide broad protection against disease caused by all pneumococcal serotypes (121).
Use of other peptides or pneumococcal proteins as carriers in conjugate vaccines is also being studied.
Additionally, alternative routes of delivery including intranasally and orally administered vaccines are under investigation (122,123).
Acknowledgments The authors express their appreciation for contributions from the following persons: Donna M.
Ambrosino, M.D.; Steven Black, M.D.; Ron Dagan, M.D.; Jill Hackell, M.D.; William P.
Hausdorff, Ph.D.; James C.
King, Jr., M.D.; Tracy A.
Lieu, M.D., M.P.H.; Carlton K.
Meschievitz, M.D., M.P.H.; John F.
Modlin, M.D.; Deborah C.
Molrine, M.D., M.P.H.; Katherine L.
O'Brien, M.D., M.P.H.; Peter Paradiso, Ph.D.; G.
Thomas Ray, M.B.A.; Mathuram Santosham, M.D., M.P.H.; Henry R.
Shinefield, M.D.; Jeffrey L.
Silber, M.D.; Louis Vernacchio, M.D.; and Catherine Wilfert, M.D.
We are also thankful for assistance from the following CDC staff: William L.
Atkinson, M.D., M.P.H.; Sharon Balter, M.D.; Scott F.
Dowell, M.D.; John R.
Livengood, M.D.; Walter A.
Orenstein, M.D.; Anne Schuchat, M.D.; Carolyn J.
Wright; Elizabeth R.
Zell, M.Stat.; and the Active Bacterial Core Surveillance/Emerging Infections Program Network staff.
References CDC.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 1997;46(No.
RR-8):1--24.
Douglas RM, Miles HB.
Vaccination against Streptococcus pneumoniae in childhood: lack of demonstrable benefit in young Australian children.
J Infect Dis 1984;149:861--9.
Sell SH, Wright PF, Vaughn WK, Thompson J, Schiffman G.
Clinical studies of pneumococcal vaccines in infants; I: reactogenicity and immunogenicity of two polyvalent polysaccharide vaccines.
Reviews of Infectious Diseases 1981;3 (suppl):S97--107.
Douglas RM, Hansman D, Miles HB, Paton JC.
Pneumococcal carriage and type-specific antibody.
American Journal of Diseases of Children 1986;140:1183--5.
Dagan R, Givon N, Yagupsky P, Porat N, Janco J, Chang I, et al.
Effect of a 9-valent pneumococcal vaccine conjugated to CRM197 on nasopharyngeal (NP) carriage of vaccine type and non-vaccine type S.
38th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Diego, CA 1998;29.
Mbelle N, Huebner RE, Wasas AD, Kimura A, Chang I, Klugman K.
Immunogenicity and impact on nasopharyngeal carriage of a nonavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1999;180:1171--6.
Black S, Shinefield H, Fireman B, et al.
Efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in children.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 2000;19:187--95.
Active Bacterial Core Surveillance (ABCs) Report, Emerging Infections Program Network (EIP), Streptococcus pneumoniae, 1998.
Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC 1999.
Accessed August 4, 2000.
Schuchat A, Robinson K, Wenger JD, et al.
Bacterial meningitis in the United States in 1995.
N Engl J Med 1997;337:970--6.
Turner RB, Lande AE, Chase P, Hilton N, Weinberg D.
Pneumonia in pediatric outpatients: cause and clinical manifestations.
J Pediatr 1987;111:194--200.
Heiskanen-Kosma T, Korppi M, Jokinen C, et al.
Etiology of childhood pneumonia: serologic results of a prospective, population-based study.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1998;17:986--91.
Dowell SF, Butler JC, Giebink GS, et al.
Acute otitis media: management and surveillance in an era of pneumococcal resistance---a report from the Drug-Resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae Therapeutic Working Group.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1999;18:1--9.
Heikkinen T, Thint M, Chonmaitree T.
Prevalence of various respiratory viruses in the middle ear during acute otitis media.
N Engl J Med 1999;340:260--4.
Causative pathogens, antibiotic resistance and therapeutic considerations in acute otitis media.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1997;16:449--56.
Bluestone CD, Stephenson JS, Martin LM.
Ten-year review of otitis media pathogens.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1992;11:S7--11.
Wald ER, Milmoe GJ, Bowen A, Ledesma-Medina J, Salamon N, Bluestone CD.
Acute maxillary sinusitis in children.
N Engl J Med 1981;304:749--54.
National Center for Health Statistics.
National ambulatory medical care survey: 1998 summary.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 2000.
(Advance data, no.
315, July 19, 2000).
Accessed August 9, 2000.
National Center for Health Statistics.
National hospital ambulatory medical care survey: 1998; outpatient department summary.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 2000.
(Advance data, no.
317, July 27, 2000).
Accessed August 9, 2000.
National Center for Health Statistics.
Ambulatory health care visits by children: principal diagnosis and place of visit.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 1998.
(Vital and health statistics, series 13, no.
Teele DW, Klein JO, Rosner B, and the Greater Boston Otitis Media Study Group.
Epidemiology of otitis media during the first seven years of life in children in greater Boston: a prospective cohort study.
J Infect Dis 1989;160(1):83--94.
Stool SE, Field MJ.
Impact of otitis media.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1989;8:S11--4.
National Center for Health Statistics.
Ambulatory surgery in the United States, 1996.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, 1998.
(Advance data from vital and health statistics, no.
Dagan R, Leibovitz E, Cheletz G, Leiberman A, Porat N, Yagupsky P.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA 1999;677.
Block SL, Harrison CJ, Hedrick JA, et.
Penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae in acute otitis media: risk factors, susceptibility patterns and antimicrobial management.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:751--9.
Dowell SF, Schwartz B.
Resistant pneumococci: protecting patients through judicious use of antibiotics.
Am Fam Physician 1997;55:1647--54.
Hofmann J, Cetron MS, Farley MM, et al.
Prevalence of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae in Atlanta.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:481--6.
Breiman RF, Spika JS, Navarro VJ, Darden PM, Darby CP.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in Charleston County, South Carolina: a decade later.
Arch Intern Med 1990;150:1401--5.
Davidson M, Parkinson AJ, Bulkow LR, Fitzgerald MA, Peters HV, Parks DJ.
Epidemiology of invasive pneumococcal disease in Alaska, 1986--1990---ethnic differences and opportunities for prevention.
J Infect Dis 1994;170:368--76.
Bennett NM, Buffington J, LaForce FM.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in Monroe County, New York.
Am J Public Health 1992;82:1513--6.
Butler JC, Bulkow LR, Parks DJ, Parkinson AJ.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA, 1999;672.
O'Brien KL, Croll J, Parkinson AJ, Reid R, Santosham M.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA, 1999;678.
Cortese MM, Wolff M, Almeido-Hill J, Reid R, Ketcham J, Santosham M.
High incidence rates of invasive pneumococcal disease in the White Mountain Apache population.
Arch Intern Med 1992;152:2277--82.
Harrison LH, Dwyer DM, Billmann L, Kolczak M, Schuchat A.
Invasive pneumococcal infection in Baltimore, Md.
Arch Intern Med 2000;160:89--94.
Levine OS, Farley M, Harrison LH, et al.
Risk factors for invasive pneumococcal disease in children: a population-based case-control study in North America.
Pediatrics 1999;103:e28.
Accessed August 4, 2000.
Henneberger PK, Galaid EI, Marr JS.
Descriptive epidemiology of pneumococcal meningitis in New York City.
Am J Epidemiol 1983;117:484--91.
Filice GA, Van Etta LL, Darby CP, Fraser DW.
Bacteremia in Charleston County, South Carolina.
Am J Epidemiol 1986;123:128--36.
Chen FM, Breiman RF, Farley M, Plikaytis B, Deaver KA, Cetron MS.
Geocoding and linking data from population-based surveillance and the US census to evaluate the impact of median household income on the epidemiology of invasive Streptococcus pneumoniae infections.
Am J Epidemiol 1998;148:1212--8.
Zangwill KM, Vadheim CM, Vannier AM, Hemenway LS, Greenberg DP, Ward JI.
Epidemiology of invasive pneumococcal disease in Southern California: implications for the design and conduct of a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine efficacy trial.
J Infect Dis 1996;174:752--9.
Pastor P, Medley F, Murphy TV.
Invasive pneumococcal disease in Dallas County, Texas: results from population-based surveillance in 1995.
Clin Infect Dis 1998;26:590--5.
Overturf GD.
Chapter 9: infections and immunizations of children with sickle cell disease.
In: Aronoff SC, ed.
Advances in pediatric infectious diseases, vol.
Louis, MO: Mosby, Inc., 1999:191--218.
Topley JM, Cupidore L, Vaidya S, Hayes RJ, and Serjeant GR.
Pneumococcal and other infections in children with sickle cell-hemoglobin C (SC) disease.
J Pediatr 1982;101(2):176--9.
Lane PA, Rogers ZR, Woods GM, et al.
Fatal pneumococcal septicemia in hemoglobin SC disease.
J Pediatr 1994;124:859--62.
Pearson HA.
J Pediatr 1996;129:788--9.
Winkelstein JA, Drachman RH.
Deficiency of pneumococcal serum opsonizing activity in sickle cell disease.
N Engl J Med 1968;279:459--66.
Ammann AJ, Addiego J, Wara DW, Lubin B, Smith WB, Mentzer WC.
Polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide immunization of patients with sickle-cell anemia and patients with splenectomy.
N Engl J Med 1977;297:897--900.
John AB, Ramlal A, Jackson H, Maude GH, Sharma AW, Serjeant GR.
Prevention of pneumococcal infection in children with homozygous sickle cell disease.
BM J 1984;288:1567--70.
Wong WY, Overturf GD, Powars DR.
Infection caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in children with sickle cell disease: epidemiology, immunologic mechanisms, prophylaxis, and vaccination.
Clin Infect Dis 1992;14:1124--36.
Bjornson AB, Falletta JM, Verter JI, et al: Serotype-specific immunoglobulin G antibody responses to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in children with sickle cell anemia: effects of continued penicillin prophylaxis.
J Pediatr 1996;129:828--35.
Fiore AE, Levine OS, Elliott JA, Facklam RR, Butler JC for the Pneumococcal Sentinel Surveillance Working Group.
Effectiveness of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine for preschool-age children with chronic disease.
Emerg Infect Dis 1999;5:828--31.
Frankel RE, Virata M, Hardalo C, Altice FL, Friedland G.
Invasive pneumococcal disease: clinical features, serotypes, and antimicrobial resistance patterns in cases involving patients with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Clin Infect Dis 1996;23:577--84.
Moore D, Nelson M, Henderson D.
Intl J STD AIDS 1998;9:1--7.
Farley JJ, King JC, Nair P, Hines SE, Tressler RL, Vink PE.
Invasive pneumococcal disease among infected and uninfected children of mothers with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
J Pediatr 1994;124:853--8.
Andiman WA, Mezger J, Shapiro E.
Invasive bacterial infections in children born to women infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
J Pediatr 1994;124:846--52.
Mao C, Harper M, McIntosh K, et al.
Invasive pneumococcal infections in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children.
J Infect Dis 1996;173:870--6.
Gessner BD, Ussery XT, Parkinson AJ, Breiman RF.
Risk factors for invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae among Alaska native children younger than two years of age.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:123--8.
Takala AK, Jussi J, Kela E, Rönnberg P-R, Koskenniemi E, Eskola J.
Risk factors for primary invasive pneumococcal disease among children in Finland.
JAMA 1995;273:859--64.
Nuorti JP, Butler JC, Farley MM, et al.
Cigarette smoking and invasive pneumococcal disease.
N Engl J Med 2000;342:681--9.
Uhari M, Mantysaari K, Niemelä M.
Meta-analytic review of the risk factors for acute otitis media.
Clin Infect Dis 1996;22:1079--83.
Nafstad P, Hagen JA, Oie L, Magnus P, Jaakkola JJK.
Day care centers and respiratory health.
Pediatrics 1999;103:753--8.
Paradise JL, Rockette HE, Colborn DK, et al.
Otitis media in 2253 Pittsburgh-area infants: prevalence and risk factors during the first two years of life.
Pediatrics 1997;99:318--33.
Fleming DW, Cochi SL, Hightower AW, Broome CV.
Childhood upper respiratory tract infections: to what degree is incidence affected by day-care attendance?
Pediatrics 1987;79:55--60.
Breiman RF, Butler JC, Tenover FC, Elliott JA, Facklam RR.
Emergence of drug-resistant pneumococcal infections in the United States.
JAMA 1994;271:1831--5.
Geographic variation in penicillin resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae---selected sites, United States, 1997.
MMWR 1999;48:656--61.
Duchin JS, Breiman RF, Diamond A, et al.
High prevalence of multidrug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae among children in a rural Kentucky community.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:745--50.
Arnold KE, Leggiadro RJ, Breiman RF, et al.
Risk factors for carriage of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae among children in Memphis, Tennessee.
J Pediatr 1996;128:757--64.
Reichler MR, Allphin AA, Breiman RF, et al.
Spread of multiply resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae at a day care center in Ohio.
J Infect Dis 1992;166:1346--53.
Dagan R, Abramson O, Leibovitz E, et al.
Impaired bacteriologic response to oral cephalosporins in acute otitis media caused by pneumococci with intermediate resistance to penicillin.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1996;15:980--5.
Catalan MJ, Fernandez JM, Vazquez A, Varela de Seijas E, Suárez A, de Quirós JCL.
Failure of cefotaxime in the treatment of meningitis due to relatively resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Clin Infect Dis 1994;18:766--9.
Sloas MM, Barrett FF, Chesney PJ, et al.
Cephalosporin treatment failure in penicillin- and cephalosporin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1992;11:662--6.
Bonafede M, Rice LB.
Emerging antibiotic resistance.
J Lab Clin Med 1997;130:558--66.
Tan TQ, Mason EO, Barson WJ, et al.
Clinical characteristics and outcome of children with pneumonia attributable to penicillin-susceptible and penicillin-nonsusceptible Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Pediatrics 1998;102:1369--75.
Friedland IR.
Comparison of the response to antimicrobial therapy of penicillin-resistant and penicillin-susceptible pneumococcal disease.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:885--90.
Feikin DR, Schuchat A, Kolczak M, et al.
Mortality from invasive pneumococcal pneumonia in the era of antibiotic resistance, 1995--1997.
Am J Public Health 2000;90:223--9.
Tuomanen EI, Austrian R, Masure HR.
Mechanisms of disease: pathogenesis of pneumococcal infection.
N Engl J Med 1995;332:1280--4.
Musher DM, Johnson B, Watson DA.
Quantitative relationship between anticapsular antibody measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay or radioimmunoassay and protection of mice against challenge with Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 4.
Infect Immun 1990;58:3871--6.
Henrichsen J.
Six newly recognized types of Streptococcus pneumoniae.
J Clin Microbiol 1995;33:2759--62.
Pneumococcal serotypes and their clinical relevance.
Thorax 1998;53:159--62.
Epidemiology of pneumococcal serotypes and conjugate vaccine formulations.
Microb Drug Resist 1997;3(2):125--9.
Butler JC, Breiman RF, Lipman HB, Hofmann J, Facklam RR.
Serotype distribution of Streptococcus pneumoniae infections among preschool children in the United States, 1978--1994: implications for development of a conjugate vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1995;171:885--9.
Sniadack DH, Schwartz B, Lipman HB, et al.
Potential interventions for the prevention of childhood pneumoniae: geographic and temporal differences in serotype and serogroup distribution of sterile site pneumococcal isolates from children---implications for vaccine strategies.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:503--10.
Hausdorff WP, Bryant J, Paradiso PR, and Siber GR.
Which pneumococcal serogroups cause the most invasive disease: implications for conjugate vaccine formulation and use, part I.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;30:100--21.
Block SL, Hedrick JA, Harrison CJ.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA, 1999;677.
Eskola J, Kilpi T.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA, 1999;16.
Klein DL, Ellis RW.
Conjugate vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae.
In: Levine MM, Woodrow GC, Kaper JB, Cobon, GS, eds.
New generation vaccines.
2nd ed., rev.
New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1997:503--25.
Thymus-independent and thymus-dependent responses to polysaccharide antigens.
J Infect Dis 1992;165 (suppl):S49--52.
Douglas RM, Paton JC, Duncan SJ, Hansman DJ.
Antibody response to pneumococcal vaccination in children younger than five years of age.
J Infect Dis 1983;148:131--7.
Adams WG, Deaver KA, Cochi SL, et al.
Decline of childhood Haemophilus influenzae Type b (Hib) disease in the Hib vaccine era.
JAMA 1993;269:221--6.
Romero-Steiner S, Libutti D, Pais LB, et al.
Standardization of an opsonophagocytic assay for the measurement of functional antibody activity against Streptococcus pneumoniae using differentiated HL-60 cells.
Clin Diagn Lab Immunol 1997;4:415--22.
Scheifele DW, Halperin SA, Guasparini R, Meekison W, Pim C, Barreto L.
Extended follow-up of antibody levels and antigen responsiveness after 2 Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccines.
J Pediatr 1999;135:240--5.
Käyhty H, Peltola H, Karanko V, and Mäkelä PH.
Protective levels of serum antibodies to the capsular polysaccharide of Haemophilus influenzae type b.
J Infect Dis 1983;147:1100.
Anderson P.
J Infect Dis 1984;149:1034--5.
Obaro SK, Huo Z, Banya WAS, et al.
Glycoprotein pneumococcal conjugate vaccine primes for antibody responses to a pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in Gambian children.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1997;16:1135--40.
Vernacchio L, Neufeld EJ, MacDonald K, et al.
Combined schedule of 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine followed by 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine in children and young adults with sickle cell disease.
J Pediatr 1998;133:275--8.
King JC, Vink PE, Farley JJ, et al.
Comparison of the safety and immunogenicity of a pneumococcal conjugate with a licensed polysaccharide vaccine in human immunodeficiency virus and non-human immunodeficiency virus-infected children.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1996;15:192--6.
Rennels MB, Edwards KM, Keyserling HL, et al.
Safety and immunogenicity of heptavalent pneumococcal vaccine conjugated to CRM197 in United States infants.
Pediatrics 1998;101:604--11.
O'Brien KL, Steinhoff MC, Edwards K, Keyserling H, Thoms ML, Madore D.
Immunologic priming of young children by pneumococcal glycoprotein conjugate, but not polysaccharide, vaccines.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1996;15:425--30.
O'Brien KL, Winkelstein JA, Santosham M, et al.
Immunogenicity of a pneumococcal protein conjugate vaccine in infants with sickle cell disease.
Pediatr Res 1996;39(4):160.
Dagan R, Muallem M, Melamed R, Leroy O, Yagupsky P.
Reduction of pneumococcal nasopharyngeal carriage in early infancy after immunization with tetravalent pneumococcal vaccines conjugated to either tetanus toxoid or diphtheria toxoid.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1997;16:1060--4.
Nowak-Wegrzyn AH, Winkelstein JA, Stover BM, Swift AJ, Lederman HM.
Pediatric Academic Societies 1999 Annual Meeting, San Francisco, CA.
King JC, Vink PE, Farley JJ, Smilie M, Parks M, Lichenstein R.
Safety and immunogenicity of three doses of a five-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in children younger than two years with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Pediatrics 1997;99:575--80.
Miernyk KM, Parkinson AJ, Rudolph KM, et al.
Clin Infect Dis 2000;31:34--41.
Black S, Shinefield H, Ray P, et al.
39th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, San Francisco, CA 1999;379.
Kilpi T, Jokinen J, Herra E, et al.
2nd International Symposium on Pneumococci and Pneumococcal Diseases, Sun City, South Africa, 2000.
Pediatric Academic Societies and the American Academy of Pediatrics Joint Meeting, Boston, MA, 2000.
Mohle-Boetani JC, Ajello G, and Breneman E.
Carriage of Haemophilus influenzae type b in children after widespread vaccination with conjugate Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccines.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1993;12:589--93.
Second International Symposium of Pneumococci and Pneumococcal Diseases, Sun City, South Africa, 2000.
Accessed August 9, 2000.
Lieu TA, Ray GT, Black SB, et al.
Projected cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination of healthy infants and young children.
JAMA 2000;283:1460--8.
Re-analysis of the projected cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination of healthy U.S.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Meeting, Atlanta, GA, 2000.
Food and Drug Administration.
Product approval information---licensing action.
Hyattsville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, 2000.
Accessed August 9, 2000.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2000 red book: report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2000:444.
Shinefield H, Black S, Ray P, et al.
Safety and immunogenicity of heptavalent pneumococcal CRM197 conjugate vaccine in infants and toddlers.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1999;18:757--63.
Gaston MH, Verter JI, Woods G, et al.
Prophylaxis with oral penicillin in children with sickle cell anemia.
N Engl J Med 1986;314:1593--9.
Norris CF, Mahannah SR, Smith-Whitley K, Ohene-Fremong K, McGowan KL.
Pneumococcal colonization in children with sickle cell disease.
J Pediatr 1996;129:821--7.
Adamkiewicz TV, Farley MM, Baughman W, Schrag S, Elliot J.
Pediatr Res 1999;45:143A.
O'Brien KL.
International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases, Atlanta, GA, 2000.
Accessed August 9, 2000.
Rudolph KM, Parkinson AJ, Reasonover AL, Bulkow LR, Parks DJ, Butler JC.
Serotype distribution and antimicrobial resistance patterns of invasive isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae: Alaska, 1991--1998.
J Infect Dis 2000; (in press).
Sorensen RU, Leiva LE, Giangrosso PA, et al.
Response to a heptavalent conjugate Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccine in children with recurrent infections who are unresponsive to the polysaccharide vaccine.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1998;17:685--91.
Powers DC, Anderson EL, Lottenbach K, Mink CM.
Reactogenicity and immunogenicity of a protein-conjugated pneumococcal oligosaccharide vaccine in older adults.
J Infect Dis 1996;173:1014--8.
Ahmed F, Steinhoff MC, Rodriquez-Barradas MC, Hamilton RG, Musher DM, Nelson KE.
Effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection on the antibody response to a glycoprotein conjugate pneumococcal vaccine: results from a randomized trial.
J Infect Dis 1996;173:83--90.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
Pneumococcal infections.
In: Pickering LK, ed.
2000 red book: report of the committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2000:459.
Novel pneumococcal surface proteins: role in virulence and vaccine potential.
Trends Microbiol 1998;6:85--7.
Flanagan MP, Michael JG.
Oral immunization with a Streptococcal pneumoniae polysaccharide conjugate vaccine in enterocoated microparticles induces serum antibodies against type specific polysaccharides.
Vaccine 1999;17:72--81.
Könen-Waisman S, Cohen A, Fridkin M, Cohen IR: Self heat-shock protein (hsp60) peptide serves in a conjugate vaccine against a lethal pneumococcal infection.
J Infect Dis 1999;179:403--13.
** Abbreviations used in this report are those used by ACIP during development of vaccination recommendations; they are similar to those already published by the American Academy of Pediatrics (Source: American Academy of Pediatrics.
Pediatrics 2000:106:3626).
**** Routine vaccinations included diphtheria toxoid-tetanus toxoid-pertussis vaccine; Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate; hepatitis B; oral and inactivated poliovirus; measles-mumps-rubella; and varicella.
***** Initially all children in the study received the whole-cell pertussis vaccine and oral poliovirus vaccine; however, after changes in vaccine recommendations midway through the study, participants began receiving the diphtheria toxoid-tetanus toxoid-acellular pertussis vaccine and the inactivated poliovirus vaccine.
******* A Strong evidence, including results of efficacy studies, supports vaccine use.
B Moderate evidence, including immunogenicity data but not efficacy data, supports vaccine use.
C No efficacy or immunogenicity studies are available regarding this population, but protection is anticipated on the basis of such studies among other groups; vaccination is supported by respected authorities.
******** This recommendation excludes children who have received a bone marrow transplant (BMT).
Children who undergo BMT have impaired humoral immune system responses for months or years after the procedure and are at increased risk for serious pneumococcal infection.
Because studies among this population are not complete, ACIP is currently unable to make recommendations regarding use of PCV7 among BMT patients.
PCV7 might produce superior antibody responses compared with PPV23 among BMT patients.
However, pending results of studies of PCV7 among BMT patients, health-care providers should vaccinate this population with PPV23 vaccine at 12 and 24 months after BMT, as recommended by an expert panel (Source: CDC.
Guidelines for preventing opportunistic infections among hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients: recommendations of CDC, the Infectious Disease Society of America, and the American Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation.
MMWR 2000;in press).
Table 1 Return to top.
Figure 1 Return to top.
Table 2 Return to top.
Figure 2 Return to top.
Table 3 Return to top.
Table 4 Return to top.
Table 5 Return to top.
Table 6 Return to top.
Table 7 Return to top.
Table 8 Return to top.
Table 9 Return to top.
Table 10 Return to top.
Table 11 Return to top.
Table 12 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Recommendations and Reports April 04, 1997 / 46(RR-08);1-24 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Prevention of Pneumococcal Disease: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Summary This report updates the last recommendations by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) concerning pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (MMWR 1989;38:64-8,73-6).
ACIP recommends that the vaccine be used more extensively and administered to all persons in the following groups: a) persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years, b) immunocompetent persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years who are at increased risk for illness and death associated with pneumococcal disease because of chronic illness, c) persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years with functional or anatomic asplenia, d) persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years living in environments in which the risk for disease is high, and e) immunocompromised persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years who are at high risk for infection.
This report contains updated information regarding a) antimicrobial resistance among pneumococci, b) vaccine effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, c) indications for vaccination, d) guidelines for revaccination, e) strategies for improving delivery of vaccine, and f) development of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
INTRODUCTION Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is a bacterial pathogen that affects children and adults worldwide.
It is a leading cause of illness in young children and causes illness and death among the elderly and persons who have certain underlying medical conditions.
The organism colonizes the upper respiratory tract and can cause the following types of illnesses: a) disseminated invasive infections, including bacteremia and meningitis; b) pneumonia and other lower respiratory tract infections; and c) upper respiratory tract infections, including otitis media and sinusitis.
Each year in the United States, pneumococcal disease accounts for an estimated 3,000 cases of meningitis, 50,000 cases of bacteremia, 500,000 cases of pneumonia, and 7 million cases of otitis media (1-4).
The focus of this report is the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease (i.e., bacteremia, meningitis, or infection of other normally sterile sites) through the use of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.
This vaccine protects against invasive bacteremic disease, although existing data suggest that it is less effective in protecting against other types of pneumococcal infections.
BACKGROUND Incidence of Invasive Disease Severe pneumococcal infections result from dissemination of bacteria to the bloodstream and the central nervous system.
Data from community-based studies indicate that overall annual incidence of pneumococcal bacteremia in the United States is an estimated 15-30 cases per 100,000 population; the rate is higher for persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years (50-83 cases per 100,000 population) and for children aged less than or equal to 2 years (160 cases per 100,000 population) (5-9).
In adults, 60%-87% of pneumococcal bacteremia is associated with pneumonia (10-12); in young children, the primary sites of infection are frequently not identified.
In the United States, the risk for acquiring bacteremia is lower among white persons than among persons in other racial/ethnic groups (i.e., blacks, Alaskan Natives, and American Indians).
Black adults have a threefold to fivefold higher overall incidence of bacteremia (49-58 cases per 100,000 population) than whites (5-8).
Rates of invasive pneumococcal disease are exceptionally high among Alaskan Natives and American Indians.
The age-adjusted annual incidence of invasive pneumococcal infection among Alaskan Natives and Alaskan Native children aged less than 2 years was determined by a prospective surveillance study to be 74 cases and 624 cases per 100,000 population, respectively; rates for meningitis and bacteremic pneumonia are eightfold to tenfold higher for Alaskan Natives of all ages than for other U.S.
population groups (13).
The highest incidence rates for any U.S.
population have been reported among specific American Indian groups (e.g., Apache) (14).
The overall annual incidence for such groups is 156 cases per 100,000 population; the incidence for children aged 1-2 years in these groups is 2,396 cases per 100,000 population.
In the United States, the estimated overall annual incidence of pneumococcal meningitis is one to two cases per 100,000 population (15).
The incidence of pneumococcal meningitis is highest among children aged 6-24 months and persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years; rates for blacks are twice as high as those for whites and Hispanics.
Because the incidence of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) meningitis in children rapidly decreased following the introduction of Hib conjugate vaccines, S.
pneumoniae has become the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in the United States (CDC, unpublished data).
Other Pneumococcal Infections Lower Respiratory Tract Infections S.
pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired bacterial pneumonia, occurring most frequently among the elderly and young children.
The precise incidence of pneumococcal pneumonia is difficult to ascertain because routine diagnostic tests are insufficiently specific and sensitive.
Nonetheless, at least 500,000 cases of pneumococcal pneumonia are estimated to occur annually in the United States; S.
pneumoniae accounts for approximately 25%-35% of cases of community-acquired bacterial pneumonia in persons who require hospitalization (16-19).
Concomitant bacteremia occurs in approximately 10%-25% of adult patients who have pneumococcal pneumonia (17,20).
Acute Otitis Media and Other Upper Respiratory Tract Infections S.
pneumoniae is a substantial cause of acute otitis media (AOM) and other upper respiratory tract infections (e.g., sinusitis).
Although these types of infections usually do not progress to invasive disease, they cause considerable morbidity and medical cost.
In the United States, AOM results in more than 24 million visits to pediatricians per year (21); approximately 30%-50% of AOM infections are caused by S.
pneumoniae (22).
AOM infection most often occurs in children aged less than 4 years.
In the United States, 62% of children experience an episode of AOM during their first year of life, and nearly half have had three or more episodes before their third birthday (23).
Mortality Pneumococcal infection causes an estimated 40,000 deaths annually in the United States (1,2,24), accounting for more deaths than any other vaccine-preventable bacterial disease (25).
Approximately half of these deaths potentially could be prevented through the use of vaccine.
Case-fatality rates are highest for meningitis and bacteremia, and the highest mortality occurs among the elderly and patients who have underlying medical conditions.
Among children, death from pneumococcal infection is relatively uncommon, except among those who a) have meningitis, b) are immunocompromised, or c) have undergone splenectomy and have severe bacteremia.
Despite appropriate antimicrobial therapy and intensive medical care, the overall case-fatality rate for pneumococcal bacteremia is 15%-20% among adults.
Among elderly patients, this rate is approximately 30%-40% (5-7,15,26-28).
An overall case-fatality rate of 36% was recently documented for adult inner-city residents who were hospitalized for pneumococcal bacteremia (12).
Risk Factors Children aged less than 2 years and adults aged greater than or equal to 65 years are at increased risk for pneumococcal infection.
Persons who have certain underlying medical conditions also are at increased risk for developing pneumococcal infection or experiencing severe disease and complications.
Diabetes mellitus often is associated with cardiovascular or renal dysfunction, which increases the risk for severe pneumococcal illness.
The incidence of pneumococcal infection is increased for persons who have liver disease as a result of alcohol abuse (10,20,29,30).
Asthma has not been associated with an increased risk for pneumococcal disease, unless it occurs with chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or long-term use of systemic corticosteroids.
Persons with functional or anatomic asplenia (e.g., sickle cell disease or splenectomy) are at highest risk for pneumococcal infection, because this condition leads to reduced clearance of encapsulated bacteria from the bloodstream.
Children who have sickle cell disease or have had a splenectomy are at increased risk for fulminant pneumococcal sepsis associated with high mortality.
Before the widespread use of penicillin chemoprophylaxis for these patients, children with sickle cell disease were 600-fold more likely than children without this disease to develop pneumococcal meningitis (24).
pneumoniae is the most commonly identified bacterial pathogen that causes pneumonia in HIV-infected persons (32).
In children, invasive pneumococcal disease is often the first clinical manifestation of HIV infection.
The annual attack rate of pneumococcal bacteremia is as high as 1% (940 cases per 100,000 population) among persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (33).
As many as 91% of adults who have invasive pneumococcal infection have at least one of the previously mentioned underlying medical conditions, including age greater than or equal to 65 years (6,9,24,27).
Recurrent pneumococcal meningitis may occur in patients who have chronic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage resulting from congenital lesions, skull fractures, or neurosurgical procedures.
A case-control study conducted in Finland identified day care center attendance among children aged less than 2 years as a major risk factor for invasive pneumococcal disease (34).
Although the risk for invasive pneumococcal infection associated with day care center attendance was significantly higher (i.e., 36-fold) among children aged less than 2 years compared with those who did not attend day care, the risk among children aged greater than or equal to 2 years (the age group in which pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine could potentially prevent disease) was not significantly different from that for those who did not attend day care.
Studies conducted in the United States also have indicated that children aged less than 2 years who attend day care are at higher risk for infection than are those who do not (35).
In addition, clusters of invasive pneumococcal disease have been reported among children who attend day care (36,37).
Antimicrobial Resistance Strains of drug-resistant S.
pneumoniae (DRSP) have become increasingly common in the United States and in other parts of the world (38,39).
Many penicillin-resistant pneumococci are also resistant to other antimicrobial drugs (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and extended-spectrum cephalosporins).
High-level penicillin resistance and multidrug resistance often complicate the management of pneumococcal infection and make choosing empiric antimicrobial therapy for suspected cases of meningitis, pneumonia, and otitis media increasingly difficult (42).
Treating patients infected with nonsusceptible organisms may require the use of expensive alternative antimicrobial agents and may result in prolonged hospitalization and increased medical costs.
The impact of antimicrobial resistance on mortality is not clearly defined.
Emerging antimicrobial resistance further emphasizes the need for preventing pneumococcal infections by vaccination.
PNEUMOCOCCAL POLYSACCHARIDE VACCINE The currently available pneumococcal vaccines, manufactured by both Merck and Company, Inc.
(Pneumovax 23) and Lederle Laboratories (Pnu-Immune 23), include 23 purified capsular polysaccharide antigens of S.
pneumoniae (serotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 8, 9N, 9V, 10A, 11A, 12F, 14, 15B, 17F, 18C, 19A, 19F, 20, 22F, 23F, and 33F).
These vaccines were licensed in the United States in 1983 and replaced an earlier 14-valent formulation that was licensed in 1977.
One dose (0.5 mL) of the 23-valent vaccine contains 25 ug of each capsular polysaccharide antigen dissolved in isotonic saline solution with phenol (0.25%) or thimerosal (0.01%) added as preservative and no adjuvant.
The 23 capsular types in the vaccine represent at least 85%-90% of the serotypes that cause invasive pneumococcal infections among children and adults in the United States (43-45).
The six serotypes (6B, 9V, 14, 19A, 19F, and 23F) that most frequently cause invasive drug-resistant pneumococcal infection in the United States are represented in the 23-valent vaccine (8,39).
Immunogenicity Pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide antigens induce type-specific antibodies that enhance opsonization, phagocytosis, and killing of pneumococci by leukocytes and other phagocytic cells.
After vaccination, an antigen-specific antibody response, indicated by a twofold or greater rise in serotype-specific antibody, develops within 2-3 weeks in greater than or equal to 80% of healthy young adults (46); however, immune responses may not be consistent among all 23 serotypes in the vaccine.
The levels of antibodies that correlate with protection against pneumococcal disease have not been clearly defined.
Antibody responses also occur in the elderly and in patients who have alcoholic cirrhosis, COPD, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (20,24,46); however, antibody concentrations and responses to individual antigens may be lower among such persons than among healthy young adults.
Persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years with anatomic or functional asplenia (e.g., from splenectomy or sickle cell disease) generally respond to pneumococcal vaccination with antibody levels comparable with those observed in healthy persons of the same age (47).
In immunocompromised patients, antibody responses to pneumococcal vaccination are often diminished or absent.
In patients with leukemia, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma, antibody response to pneumococcal vaccination is substantially lower than response among patients who are immunocompetent.
Patients who have chronic renal failure requiring dialysis, renal transplantation, or nephrotic syndrome have a diminished immune response to vaccination, resulting in lower antibody concentrations than those observed in healthy adults (24).
In patients with Hodgkins disease, the antibody response to pneumococcal vaccination is greater if the vaccine is administered before splenectomy, radiation, or chemotherapy; however, during chemotherapy, preexisting pneumocococcal antibodies may decrease, and responses to pneumococcal vaccine may be diminished (48).
Patients who have AIDS may have a diminished antibody response to pneumococcal vaccine (49,50).
The reduction in titers of antibody corresponds to the degree of immunosuppression; some asymptomatic HIV-infected persons or those with only generalized lymphadenopathy respond to the 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine (51).
HIV-infected patients with CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts less than 500 cells/uL often have lower responses to pneumococcal vaccination than either HIV-infected persons with higher CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts or persons who are not HIV-infected (52).
Bacterial capsular polysaccharides induce antibodies primarily by T-cell- independent mechanisms.
Therefore, antibody response to most pneumococcal capsular types is generally poor or inconsistent in children aged less than 2 years whose immune systems are immature.
Age-specific immune responses also vary by serotype, and the response to some common pediatric pneumococcal serotypes (e.g., 6A and 14) also is decreased in children aged 2-5 years (53-55).
Duration of Antibody Levels Levels of antibodies to most pneumococcal vaccine antigens remain elevated for at least 5 years in healthy adults.
In some persons, antibody concentrations decrease to prevaccination levels by 10 years (56,57).
A more rapid decline (i.e., within 3-5 years after vaccination) in antibody concentrations may occur in certain children who have undergone splenectomy following trauma and in those who have sickle cell disease (58,59).
Similar rates of decline can occur in children with nephrotic syndrome (60).
Antibody concentrations also have declined after 5-10 years in elderly persons, persons who have undergone splenectomy, patients with renal disease requiring dialysis, and persons who have received transplants (24,56,57,61-63).
Low or rapidly declining antibody concentrations after vaccination also have been noted among patients with Hodgkins disease (64) and multiple myeloma (65).
However, these quantitative measurements of antibodies do not account for the quality of the antibody being produced and the level of functional immune response.
Tests measuring opsonophagocytic activity and the quality of antibodies produced (i.e., avidity for pneumococcal antigens) may ultimately be more relevant for evaluating response to pneumococcal vaccination (66).
Precautions and Contraindications The safety of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been evaluated, although no adverse consequences have been reported among newborns whose mothers were inadvertently vaccinated during pregnancy.
For additional information about precautions and contraindications, the vaccine manufacturer's package insert should be reviewed.
Side Effects and Adverse Reactions Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine generally is considered safe based on clinical experience since 1977, when the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine was licensed in the United States.
Approximately half of persons who receive pneumococcal vaccine develop mild, local side effects (e.g., pain at the injection site, erythema, and swelling).
These reactions usually persist for less than 48 hours.
Moderate systemic reactions (e.g., fever and myalgias) and more severe local reactions (e.g., local induration) are rare.
Intradermal administration may cause severe local reactions and is inappropriate.
Severe systemic adverse effects (e.g., anaphylactic reactions) rarely have been reported after administration of pneumococcal vaccine (20,24).
In a recent meta-analysis of nine randomized controlled trials of pneumococcal vaccine efficacy, local reactions were observed among approximately one third or fewer of 7,531 patients receiving the vaccine, and there were no reports of severe febrile or anaphylactic reactions (67).
No neurologic disorders (e.g., Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been associated with administration of pneumococcal vaccine.
Although preliminary data have suggested that the pneumococcal vaccine may cause transient increases in HIV replication (68), the importance of this occurrence is unknown.
Pneumococcal vaccination has not been causally associated with death among vaccine recipients.
Health-care providers should report suspected adverse events after administration of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) by calling (800) 822-7967, a 24-hour, toll-free telephone number.
Vaccine Efficacy, Effectiveness, and Cost-Effectiveness Several clinical trials have been conducted evaluating the efficacy of vaccine against pneumonia and pneumococcal bacteremia.
Efficacy Against Nonbacteremic Pneumococcal Disease Prelicensure randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of pneumococcal vaccine efficacy were conducted in the 1970s among young, healthy gold miners in South Africa who had high rates of pneumococcal pneumonia and bacteremia; a multivalent polysaccharide vaccine significantly reduced the occurrence of radiographically diagnosed pneumonia in this group (71,72).
In non-epidemic situations in the United States, most pneumococcal disease in adults occurs in the elderly or in persons with chronic medical conditions.
Vaccine efficacy for nonbacteremic pneumonia was not demonstrated for these populations in two postlicensure RCTs conducted in the United States (74,76).
However, these studies may have lacked sufficient statistical power to detect a difference in the incidence of laboratory-confirmed, nonbacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia between the vaccinated and nonvaccinated study groups (81).
A meta-analysis evaluating pneumococcal vaccine efficacy by combining the results of nine randomized, controlled trials also did not demonstrate a protective effect for nonbacteremic pneumonia among persons in high-risk groups (67).
The ability to evaluate vaccine efficacy in these studies is limited because of the lack of specific and sensitive diagnostic tests for nonbacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia.
The pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is not effective for the prevention of common upper respiratory diseases (e.g., sinusitis or AOM) in children (82).
Effectiveness Against Invasive Disease Effectiveness in case-control studies generally has ranged from 56% to 81% (75,78-80).
Only one case-control study did not document effectiveness against bacteremic disease (77) -- possibly because of study limitations, including small sample size and incomplete ascertainment of vaccination status of patients.
In addition, case-patients and persons who served as controls may not have been comparable regarding the severity of their underlying medical conditions, potentially creating a biased underestimate of vaccine effectiveness (81).
Vaccine effectiveness of 65%-84% also was demonstrated among specific patient groups (e.g., persons who have diabetes mellitus, coronary vascular disease, congestive heart failure, chronic pulmonary disease, and anatomic asplenia).
Effectiveness in immunocompetent persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years was 75% (95% CI=57%-85%).
Vaccine effectiveness could not be confirmed for certain groups of immunocompromised patients (e.g., those with sickle cell disease, chronic renal failure, immunoglobulin deficiency, Hodgkins disease, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, leukemia, or multiple myeloma).
However, this study could not accurately measure effectiveness in each of these groups because of the minimal numbers of unvaccinated patients with these illnesses.
In an earlier study, vaccinated children and young adults aged 2-25 years who had sickle cell disease or who had undergone splenectomy experienced significantly less bacteremic pneumococcal disease than patients who were not vaccinated (47).
A meta-analysis of nine randomized controlled trials of pneumococcal vaccine concluded that pneumococcal vaccine is efficacious in reducing the frequency of bacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia among adults in low-risk groups (67).
However, the vaccine is not effective in preventing disease caused by non-vaccine serotype organisms (79).
Cost-Effectiveness Preliminary results of a cost-effectiveness analysis indicate that pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is cost-effective and potentially cost-saving among persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years for prevention of bacteremia (83).
The vaccine compares favorably with other standard preventive practices.
VACCINE ADMINISTRATION Pneumococcal vaccine is administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously as one 0.5-mL dose.
Pneumococcal vaccine may be administered at the same time as influenza vaccine (by separate injection in the other arm) without an increase in side effects or decreased antibody response to either vaccine (62,84).
Pneumococcal vaccine also may be administered concurrently with other vaccines.
The administration of pneumococcal vaccine with combined diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP); poliovirus; or other vaccines does not increase the severity of reactions or diminish antibody responses (85).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR VACCINE USE Immunocompetent Persons The vaccine is both cost effective and protective against invasive pneumococcal infection when administered to immunocompetent persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years.
Therefore, all persons in the following categories should receive the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (Table_2).
If earlier vaccination status is unknown, persons in these categories should be administered pneumococcal vaccine.
Persons Aged greater than or equal to 65 Years All persons in this category should receive the pneumococcal vaccine, including previously unvaccinated persons and persons who have not received vaccine within 5 years (and were less than 65 years of age at the time of vaccination).
All persons who have unknown vaccination status should receive one dose of vaccine (Figure_1).
Persons Aged 2-64 Years Who Have Chronic Illness Persons aged 2-64 years who are at increased risk for pneumococcal disease or its complications if they become infected should be vaccinated.
Persons aged 50-64 years commonly have chronic illness, and 12% have pulmonary risk factors for invasive pneumococcal disease.
Therefore, persons in this age group who have these risk factors should receive the vaccine (86).
Persons aged 50 years should have their overall vaccination status reviewed to determine whether they have risk factors that indicate a need for pneumococcal vaccination (87).
Vaccination status also should be assessed during the adolescent immunization visit at 11-12 years of age (88).
Persons Aged 2-64 Years Who Have Functional or Anatomic Asplenia Persons aged 2-64 years who have functional or anatomic asplenia (e.g., sickle cell disease or splenectomy) also should be vaccinated.
Persons with such a condition should be informed that vaccination does not guarantee protection against fulminant pneumococcal disease, for which the case-fatality rate is 50%-80%.
Asplenic patients with unexplained fever or manifestations of sepsis should receive prompt medical attention, including evaluation and treatment for suspected bacteremia.
Chemoprophylaxis also should be considered in these patients (see Other Methods of Prevention).
When elective splenectomy is being planned, pneumococcal vaccine should be administered at least 2 weeks before surgery.
Persons Aged 2-64 Years Who Are Living in Special Environments or Social Settings Persons aged 2-64 years who are living in environments or social settings in which the risk for invasive pneumococcal disease or its complications is increased (e.g., Alaskan Natives and certain American Indian populations) should be vaccinated.
In addition, because of recently reported outbreaks of pneumococcal disease (89), vaccination status should be assessed for residents of nursing homes and other long-term-care facilities.
Available data do not support routine pneumococcal vaccination of healthy children attending day care facilities.
Recurrent upper respiratory tract diseases, including otitis media and sinusitis, are not specific indications for pneumococcal vaccine.
Immunocompromised Persons Persons who have conditions associated with decreased immunologic function that increase the risk for severe pneumococcal disease or its complications should be vaccinated.
Although the vaccine is not as effective for immunocompromised patients as it is for immunocompetent persons, the potential benefits and safety of the vaccine justify its use.
The vaccine is recommended for persons in the following groups: immunocompromised persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years, including persons with HIV infection, leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkins disease, multiple myeloma, generalized malignancy, chronic renal failure, nephrotic syndrome, or other conditions associated with immunosuppression (e.g., organ or bone marrow transplantation); and persons receiving immunosuppressive chemotherapy, including long-term systemic corticosteroids.
If earlier vaccination status is unknown, immunocompromised persons should be administered pneumococcal vaccine.
Persons with asymptomatic or symptomatic HIV infection should be vaccinated as soon as possible after their diagnosis is confirmed.
Plasma HIV levels have been found to be transiently elevated after pneumococcal vaccination in some studies (68); other studies have not demonstrated such an elevation (90).
However, no adverse effects of pneumococcal vaccination on patient survival have been detected (68,90).
When cancer chemotherapy or other immunosuppressive therapy is being considered (e.g., for patients with Hodgkins disease or those who undergo organ or bone marrow transplantation), the interval between vaccination and initiation of immunosuppressive therapy should be at least 2 weeks.
Vaccination during chemotherapy or radiation therapy should be avoided.
REVACCINATION Duration of Immunity Following pneumococcal vaccination, serotype-specific antibody levels decline after 5-10 years and decrease more rapidly in some groups than others (56,57,61-63), which suggests that revaccination may be indicated to provide continued protection.
However, data concerning serologic correlates of protection are not conclusive, which limits the ability to precisely define indications for revaccination based on serologic data alone.
Polysaccharide vaccines, including the currently available pneumococcal vaccine, do not induce T-cell-dependent responses associated with immunologic memory.
Antibody levels increase after revaccination, but an anamnestic response does not occur (91).
The overall increase in antibody levels among elderly persons has been determined to be lower after revaccination than following primary vaccination (92).
Long-term follow-up data concerning antibody levels in persons who have been revaccinated are not yet available.
Data from one epidemiologic study have suggested that vaccination may provide protection for at least 9 years after receipt of the initial dose (44).
Decreasing estimates of effectiveness with increasing interval since vaccination, particularly among the very elderly (i.e., persons aged greater than or equal to 85 years), have been reported (79).
Adverse Reactions Following Revaccination Early studies have indicated that local reactions (i.e., arthus-type reactions) among adults receiving the second dose of 14-valent vaccine within 2 years after the first dose are more severe than those occurring after initial vaccination (20,93).
However, subsequent studies have suggested that revaccination after intervals of greater than or equal to 4 years is not associated with an increased incidence of adverse side effects (20,94,95).
Although severe local reactions may occur following a second dose of pneumococcal vaccine, the rate of adverse reactions is no greater than the rate after the first dose.
An evaluation of 1,000 elderly Medicare enrollees who received a second dose of pneumococcal vaccine indicated that they were not significantly more likely to be hospitalized in the 30 days after vaccination than were the approximately 66,000 persons who received their first dose of vaccine (96).
No data are available to allow estimates of adverse reaction rates among persons who received more than two doses of pneumococcal vaccine.
Indications for Revaccination Routine revaccination of immunocompetent persons previously vaccinated with 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine is not recommended.
However, revaccination once is recommended for persons aged greater than or equal to 2 years who are at highest risk for serious pneumococcal infection and those who are likely to have a rapid decline in pneumococcal antibody levels, provided that 5 years have elapsed since receipt of the first dose of pneumococcal vaccine.
Revaccination 3 years after the previous dose may be considered for children at highest risk for severe pneumococcal infection who would be aged less than or equal to 10 years at the time of revaccination.
These children include those with functional or anatomic asplenia (e.g., sickle cell disease or splenectomy) and those with conditions associated with rapid antibody decline after initial vaccination (e.g., nephrotic syndrome, renal failure, or renal transplantation).
Revaccination is contraindicated for persons who had a severe reaction (e.g., anaphylactic reaction or localized arthus-type reaction) to the initial dose they received.
Persons at highest risk and those most likely to have rapid declines in antibody levels include persons with functional or anatomic asplenia (e.g., sickle cell disease or splenectomy), HIV infection, leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkins disease, multiple myeloma, generalized malignancy, chronic renal failure, nephrotic syndrome, or other conditions associated with immunosuppression (e.g., organ or bone marrow transplantation), and those receiving immunosuppressive chemotherapy (including long-term systemic corticosteroids).
If vaccination status is unknown, patients in these categories should be administered pneumococcal vaccine.
Persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years should be administered a second dose of vaccine if they received the vaccine greater than or equal to 5 years previously and were aged less than 65 years at the time of primary vaccination.
Elderly persons with unknown vaccination status should be administered one dose of vaccine (Figure_1).
The need for subsequent doses of pneumococcal vaccine is unclear and will be assessed when additional data become available.
Because data are insufficient concerning the safety of pneumococcal vaccine when administered three or more times, revaccination following a second dose is not routinely recommended.
Persons with Uncertain Vaccination Status To help avoid the administration of unnecessary doses, every patient should be given a record of the vaccination.
However, providers should not withhold vaccination in the absence of an immunization record or complete medical record.
The patient's verbal history should be used to determine prior vaccination status.
When indicated, vaccine should be administered to patients who are uncertain about their vaccination history.
OTHER METHODS OF PREVENTION Chemoprophylaxis Oral penicillin V (125 mg, twice daily), when administered to infants and young children with sickle cell disease, has reduced the incidence of pneumococcal bacteremia by 84% compared with those receiving placebo (97).
Therefore, daily penicillin prophylaxis for children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy is recommended beginning before 4 months of age.
Consensus on the age at which prophylaxis should be discontinued has not been achieved.
However, children with sickle cell anemia who had received prophylactic penicillin for prolonged intervals (but who had not had a prior severe pneumococcal infection or a splenectomy) have stopped prophylactic penicillin therapy at 5 years of age without increased incidence of pneumococcal bacteremia or meningitis (98).
Oral penicillin G or V is recommended for prevention of pneumococcal disease in children with functional or anatomic asplenia (85).
Antimicrobial prophylaxis against pneumococcal infection may be particularly useful for asplenic children not likely to respond to the polysaccharide vaccine (e.g., those aged less than 2 years or those receiving intensive chemotherapy or cytoreduction therapy).
However, the impact of the emergence of drug-resistant S.
pneumoniae on the effectiveness of antimicrobial prophylaxis is not known.
Data are inadequate to evaluate the utility of intravenous immunoglobulin administration in the prevention of pneumococcal disease among HIV-infected adults.
STRATEGIES FOR IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE USE OF VACCINE The use of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine consistently has been recommended by ACIP (20,100), the American Academy of Pediatrics (85), the American College of Physicians (87), and the American Academy of Family Physicians.
In addition, Medicare has provided a payment for pneumococcal vaccine since 1981 and a specific billing code (i.e., G009) for its administration since 1994.
Roster billing for pneumococcal vaccination was authorized in August 1996.
Hospitals may receive a separate payment for pneumococcal vaccination of Medicare beneficiaries independent of reimbursement based on prospective payment systems for services provided for other conditions.
Despite these factors, the vaccine remains underutilized.
Pneumococcal vaccine is recommended for approximately 31 million persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years and approximately 23 million persons aged less than 65 years who are at high risk for pneumococcal disease (U.S.
Immunization Survey, 1985).
The year 2000 objectives of the Public Health Service call for vaccinating at least 60% of persons at risk for influenza and pneumococcal disease (and 80% of the institutionalized elderly) by the year 2000 (101).
Most persons considered at risk for pneumococcal infection also should receive annual influenza vaccinations.
However, as of 1993, only 28% of persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years had ever received the pneumococcal vaccine.
This percentage is considerably lower than the reported annual influenza vaccination rates (52%) for the same population (102).
Barriers to achieving high pneumococcal vaccination levels among adults include a) missed opportunities to vaccinate adults during contacts with health-care providers in offices, outpatient clinics, and hospitals; b) lack of vaccine delivery systems in the public and private sectors that can reach adults in different settings (e.g., health-care, workplace, and college or university settings); c) patient and provider fears concerning adverse events following vaccination; and d) lack of awareness among both patients and providers of the seriousness of pneumococcal disease and benefits of pneumococcal vaccination (2,103).
Because pneumococcal vaccine effectively reduces the incidence of bacteremia, the use of vaccine must be increased in accordance with recommendations.
Age-Based Strategies Persons aged 50-64 years commonly have chronic illness, and 12% have pulmonary conditions that place them at increased risk for pneumococcal disease (86).
However, less than 20% of those with risk factors are estimated to have received pneumococcal vaccine.
A specific age-based standard should improve vaccination rates among persons with high-risk conditions.
Therefore, age 50 years has been established as a time to review the overall immunization status of patients; risk factors that indicate the need to administer pneumococcal vaccine should be evaluated at this visit (86,87).
Vaccination status also should be assessed during the adolescent immunization visit at age 11-12 years (88).
This visit provides an opportunity to review the need for pneumococcal vaccine; adolescents with high-risk conditions should be vaccinated.
In a New York hospital, instituting standing orders for pneumococcal vaccination of the elderly and at-risk patients increased the pneumococcal vaccination rate from zero to 78% (105).
Similar increases were achieved for influenza vaccination in community hospitals in Minnesota (106).
The Health Care Financing Administration recently has approved a regulation that permits the use of standing orders to administer pneumococcal vaccine to Medicare patients (103).
Pneumococcal vaccination also should be routinely provided for residents of nursing homes and other long-term-care facilities.
High vaccination coverage rates can be achieved when pneumococcal vaccination programs are targeted to hospitalized patients at high risk (104).
A hospital-based immunization strategy is effective and capable of reaching those patients most likely to develop pneumococcal disease (106-109).
Two thirds of persons with serious pneumococcal disease had been hospitalized within the previous 4 years before their pneumococcal illness, yet few had received pneumococcal vaccine (109).
Among these patients, 87% had one or more high-risk conditions.
Administration of pneumococcal vaccine should be included in routine clinical practice, and the vaccine, when indicated, should be administered before discharge to hospitalized patients to prevent subsequent admissions for pneumococcal disease.
Eligible patients in high-risk groups can be identified by physicians, infection-control practitioners, nurse specialists, and clinical pharmacists.
Community-Based Vaccination Programs Vaccination coverage rates increase when public health departments promote and offer the vaccine.
A community-based immunization program implemented in public health jurisdictions by the California State Department of Health Services resulted in a 33% higher rate of pneumococcal vaccination than jurisdictions without such immunization programs (110).
This program included interventions such as a) promoting and providing pneumococcal vaccine at health-department-sponsored outreach clinics, health-center clinics, and nursing and convalescent homes and b) promoting pneumococcal vaccine through leaflets, posters, and other material and referring persons to specific clinics for vaccination.
Because rates of pneumococcal disease are high among blacks, particularly those of lower socioeconomic status, community outreach programs that are focused on underserved, often inner-city populations could be effective in preventing life-threatening pneumococcal disease among persons in these groups.
A community-based pneumococcal vaccine campaign was conducted as part of the Hawaii Pneumococcal Disease Initiative, which employed public and private sector partnerships to substantially increase vaccine delivery and improve vaccination levels among persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years (111).
This public vaccination program was considered cost-effective for vaccinating substantial numbers of adults and stimulated vaccination activity among private health-care providers.
Provider-Based Strategies Provider-based strategies that have proved effective in increasing adult vaccination rates include practice-based tracking systems and physician reminder systems.
In practice-based tracking systems, providers identify the total number of their patients who are at risk and maintain rosters showing the proportion of patients who receive vaccination.
Physicians using such a tracking system have administered 30% more influenza vaccine than those not using the system (112).
Physician reminder systems consisting of charts, computers, or preventive-health checklists remind physicians to review the need for pneumococcal vaccine for each patient and to administer the vaccine to those at risk for pneumococcal disease.
Staff in physicians' offices, clinics, health maintenance organizations, and employee health clinics can be instructed to identify and label the medical records of patients who should receive the vaccine.
The use of preventive-health checklists has increased pneumococcal vaccination rates fourfold (113) and from 5% to 42% (114).
In one hospital, implementation of a computer reminder system that prompted physicians to review pneumococcal vaccination status before discharge increased pneumococcal vaccination rates from less than 4% to 45% (115).
Health-care providers in facilities providing episodic or acute care (e.g., emergency rooms and walk-in clinics) should be familiar with pneumococcal vaccine recommendations.
They should offer vaccine to persons in high-risk groups or provide written information concerning why, where, and how to obtain the vaccine.
Simultaneous Administration of Pneumococcal and Influenza Vaccines Because the indications for pneumococcal and influenza vaccines are similar, the time of administration of influenza vaccine -- including mass vaccination at outpatient clinics -- should be used as an opportunity to identify and vaccinate patients with pneumococcal vaccine.
However, influenza vaccine is administered each year, whereas pneumococcal vaccine typically is administered only once for persons in most groups (see Revaccination).
CONJUGATE VACCINE DEVELOPMENT Additional immunogenic pneumococcal vaccines that provide long-term immunity are needed -- especially for children aged less than 2 years, because incidence of disease is high and antibody responses to the polysaccharide vaccine antigens are poor in this age group.
The most promising approach is the development of a protein-polysaccharide conjugate vaccine for selected serotypes, which improves the immunogenicity and potentially the protective efficacy of pneumococcal vaccination -- especially in young children.
Immune response to many capsular polysaccharides can be improved by covalent coupling of the polysaccharide antigen to a carrier protein (116,117).
Current conjugate vaccine development has focused on the serotypes most commonly causing infections in childhood.
Candidate vaccine formulations in development and evaluation phases include at least seven serotypes of pneumococcal polysaccharides conjugated to one or several protein carriers.
In persons aged greater than or equal to 6 years, these serotypes have accounted for 50% of the cerebrospinal fluid and blood isolates (44).
Preliminary results obtained in phase I and phase II studies suggest that these vaccines generally are safe and induce primary and booster antibody responses in children aged 2-5 years and infants aged 2 months (118-121).
Multicenter trials to evaluate conjugate vaccine efficacy against acute pneumococcal otitis media and invasive disease in children are ongoing.
The polysaccharide vaccine has not reduced nasopharyngeal carriage of S.
pneumoniae among children (122).
However, preliminary data suggest that conjugate vaccines may reduce nasopharyngeal carriage of the pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine (123).
Reduction in carriage rates of S.
pneumoniae would potentially increase the overall impact of the vaccine by reducing transmission and, consequently, disease incidence.
Prospective randomized trials are required to demonstrate the protective efficacy of conjugate vaccines against invasive pneumococcal infections.
These vaccines also should be evaluated for utility in preventing pneumococcal disease in immunocompromised adults who respond poorly to the current 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine.
References CDC.
Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine usage, United States.
MMWR 1984;33:273-6,281.
Williams WW, Hickson MA, Kane MA, Kendal AP, Spika JS, Hinman AR.
Immunization policies and vaccine coverage among adults: the risk for missed opportunities.
Ann Intern Med 1988;108:616-25.
Stool SE, Field MJ.
The impact of otitis media.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1989;8(suppl):S11-S14.
Jernigan DB, Cetron MS, Breiman RF.
Minimizing the impact of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (DRSP): a strategy from the DRSP working group.
JAMA 1996;275:206-9.
Istre GR, Tarpay M, Anderson M, Pryor A, Welch D, Pneumococcus Study Group.
Invasive disease due to Streptococcus pneumoniae in an area with a high rate of relative penicillin resistance.
J Infect Dis 1987;156:732-5.
Breiman RF, Spika JS, Navarro VJ, Darden PM, Darby CP.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in Charleston County, South Carolina: a decade later.
Arch Intern Med 1990;150:1401-5.
Bennett NM, Buffington J, LaForce FM.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in Monroe County, New York.
Am J Public Health 1992;82:1513-6.
Hofmann J, Cetron MS, Farley MM, et al.
The prevalence of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae in Atlanta.
N Engl J Med 1995;333:481-6.
Plouffe JF, Breiman RF, Facklam RR, Franklin County Pneumonia Study Group.
Bacteremia with Streptococcus pneumoniae in adults -- implications for therapy and prevention.
JAMA 1996;275:194-8.
Burman LA, Norrby R, Trollfors B.
Invasive pneumococcal infections: incidence, predisposing factors, and prognosis.
Rev Infect Dis 1985;7:133-42.
Kuikka A, Syrjanen J, Renkonen O-V, Valtonen V.
Pneumococcal bacteremia during a recent decade.
J Infect 1992;24:157-68.
Afessa B, Greaves WL, Frederick WR.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in adults: a 14-year experience in an inner-city university hospital.
Clin Infect Dis 1995;21:345-51.
Davidson M, Parkinson AJ, Bulkow LR, Fitzgerald MA, Peters HV, Parks DJ.
The epidemiology of invasive pneumococcal disease in Alaska, 1986-1990: ethnic differences and opportunities for prevention.
J Infect Dis 1994;170:368-76.
Cortese MM, Wolff M, Almeido-Hill J, Reid R, Ketcham J, Santosham M.
HIgh incidence rates of invasive pneumococcal disease in the White Mountain Apache population.
Arch Intern Med 1992;152:2277-82.
Wenger JD, Hightower AW, Facklam RR, Gaventa S, Broome CV, Bacterial Meningitis Study Group.
Bacterial meningitis in the United States, 1986: report of a multistate surveillance study.
J Infect Dis 1990;162:1316-23.
Marrie TJ, Durant H, Yates L.
Community-acquired pneumonia requiring hospitalization: 5-year prospective study.
Rev Infect Dis 1989;11:586-99.
Research Committee of the British Thoracic Society.
Community-acquired pneumonia in adults in British hospitals in 1982-1983: a survey of aetiology, mortality, prognostic factors and outcome.
Q J Med 1987;62:195-220.
Fang GD, Fine M, Orloff J, et al.
New and emerging etiologies for community-acquired pneumonia with implications for therapy: a prosepective multicenter study of 359 cases.
Medicine 1990;69:307-16.
Torres A, Serra-Batlles J, Ferrer A, et al.
Severe community-acquired pneumonia: epidemiology and prognostic factors.
Am Rev Respir Dis 1991;144:312-8.
Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee: pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.
MMWR 1989;38:64-8,73-6.
Schappert SM.
Office visits for otitis media: United States, 1975-90.
Hyattsville, MD: United States Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control, 1992 (Advance data no.
Bluestone CD, ed.
Pediatric otolaryngology.
Philadelphia, PA: WB Saunders Company, 1990.
Teele DW, Klein JO, Rosner B, Greater Boston Otitis Media Study Group.
Epidemiology of otitis media during the first seven years of life in children in Greater Boston: a prospective, cohort study.
J Infect Dis 1989;160:83-94.
Fedson DS, Musher DM.
Pneumococcal vaccine.
In: Plotkin SA, Mortimer EA Jr, eds.
Philadelphia, PA: WB Saunders, 1994:517-63.
Gardner P, Schaffner W.
Immunization of adults.
N Engl J Med 1993;328:1252-8.
Hook EW, Horton CA, Schaberg DR.
Failure of intensive care unit support to influence mortality from pneumococcal bacteremia.
JAMA 1983;249:1055-7.
Mufson MA, Oley G, Hughey D.
Pneumococcal disease in a medium-sized community in the United States.
JAMA 1982;248:1486-9.
Campbell JF, Donohue MA, Mochizuki RB, Nevin-Woods CL, Spika JS.
Pneumococcal bacteremia in Hawaii: initial findings of a pneumococcal disease prevention project.
Hawaii Med J 1989;48:513-8.
Lipsky BA, Boyko EJ, Inui TS, Koepsell TD.
Risk factors for acquiring pneumococcal infections.
Arch Intern Med 1986;146:2179-85.
Streptococcus pneumoniae.
In: Mandell GL, Bennet JE, Dolin R, eds.
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases.
Churchill Livingstone, 1994:1811-26.
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP): use of vaccines and immunoglobulins in persons with altered immunocompetence.
MMWR 1993;42(No.
RR-4):1-18.
Keller DW, Breiman RF.
Preventing bacterial respiratory tract infections among persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
Clin Infect Dis 1995;21(suppl 1):S77-S83.
Redd SC, Rutherford GW, Sande MA, et al.
The role of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pneumococcal bacteremia in San Francisco residents.
J Infect Dis 1990;162:1012-7.
Takala AK, Jero J, Kela E, R½nnberg P-R, Koskenniemi E, Eskola J.
Risk factors for primary invasive pneumococcal disease among children in Finland.
JAMA 1995;273:859-64.
Gessner BD, Ussery XT, Parkinson AJ, Breiman RF.
Risk factors for invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae among Alaska native children younger than two years of age.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14:123-8.
Cherian T, Steinhoff MC, Harrison LH, Rohn D, McDougal L, Dick J.
A cluster of invasive pneumococcal disease in young children in child care.
JAMA 1994;271:695-8.
Hemorrhage and shock associated with invasive pneumococcal infection in healthy infants and children -- New Mexico, 1993-1994.
MMWR 1995;43:949-52.
Klugman KP.
Pneumococcal resistance to antibiotics.
Clin Microbiol Rev 1990;3:171-96.
Butler JC, Hofmann J, Cetron MS, Elliott JA, Facklam RR, Breiman RF.
The continued emergence of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae in the United States: an update from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Pneumococcal Sentinel Surveillance System.
J Infect Dis 1996;174:986-93.
Arnold KE, Leggiadro RJ, Breiman RF, et al.
Risk factors for carriage of drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae among children in Memphis, Tennessee.
J Pediatr 1996;128:757-64.
Duchin JS, Breiman RF, Diamond A, et al.
High prevalence of multidrug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae among children in a rural Kentucky community.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1995;14: 745-50.
American Academy of Pediatrics, Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Therapy for children with invasive pneumococcal infections.
Pediatrics 1997;99:289-99.
Robbins JB, Austrian R, Lee CJ, et al.
Considerations for formulating the second-generation pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide vaccine with emphasis on the cross-reactive types within groups.
J Infect Dis 1983;148:1136-59.
Butler JC, Breiman RF, Campbell JF, Lipman HB, Broome CV, Facklam RR.
Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine efficacy: an evaluation of current recommendations.
JAMA 1993;270:1826-31.
Butler JC, Breiman RF, Lipman HB, Hofmann J, Facklam RR.
Serotype distribution of Streptococcus pneumoniae infections among preschool children in the United States, 1978-1994: Implications for development of a conjugate vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1995;171;885-9.
Musher DM, Luchi M, Watson DA, Hamilton R, Baughn RE.
Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in young adults and older bronchitics: determination of IgG responses by ELISA and the effect of adsorption of serum with non-type-specific cell wall polysaccharide.
J Infect Dis 1990;161:728-35.
Ammann AJ, Addiego K, Wara DW, Lubin D, Smith WB, Mentzer WC.
Polyvalent pneumococcal-polysaccharide immunization of patients with sickle cell anemia and patients with splenectomy.
N Engl J Med 1977;297:897-900.
Siber GR, Gorham C, Martin P, Corkey JC, Schiffman G.
Antibody response to pretreatment immunization and post-treatment boosting with bacterial polysaccharide vaccines in patients with Hodgkins disease.
Ann Intern Med 1986;104:467-75.
Ammann AJ, Schiffman G, Abrams D, Volberding P, Ziegler J, Conant M.
B-cell immunodeficiency in acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
JAMA 1984;251:1447-9.
Ballet J-J, Sulcebe G, Couderc L-J, et al.
Impaired anti-pneumococcal antibody response in patients with AIDS-related persistent generalized lymphadenopathy.
Clin Exp Immunol 1987;68:479-87.
Huang K-L, Ruben FL, Rinaldo CR Jr, Kingsley L, Lyter DW, Ho M.
Antibody responses after influenza and pneumococcal immunization in HIV infected homosexual men.
JAMA 1987; 257:2047-50.
Rodriguez-Barradas MC, Musher DM, Lahart C, et al.
Antibody to capsular polysaccharides of Streptococcus pneumoniae after vaccination of human immunodeficiency virus-infected subjects with 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1992;165:553-6.
Koskela M, Leinonen M, Haiva V-M, Timonen M, Makela PH.
First and second dose antibody responses to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in infants.
Pediatr Infect Dis 1986;5:45-50.
Leinonen M, Sakkinen A, Kalliokoski R, Luotonen J, Timonen M, Makela PH.
Antibody response to 14-valent pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide vaccine in pre-school age children.
Pediatr Infect Dis 1986;5:39-44.
Douglas RM, Paton JC, Duncan SJ, Hansman DJ.
Antibody response to pneumococcal vaccination in children younger than five years of age.
J Infect Dis 1983;148:131-7.
Mufson MA, Krause HE, Schiffman G.
Long-term persistence of antibody following immunization with pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 1983;173:270-5.
Mufson MA, Krause HE, Schiffman G, Hughey DF.
Pneumococcal antibody levels one decade after immunization of healthy adults.
Am J Med Sci 1987;293:279-89.
Giebink GS, Le CT, Schiffman G.
Decline of serum antibody in splenectomized children after vaccination with pneumococcal capsular polysaccharides.
J Pediatr 1984;105:576-84.
Weintrub PS, Schiffman G, Addiego JE Jr., et al.
Long-term follow-up and booster immunization with polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide in patients with sickle cell anemia.
J Pediatr 1984;105:261-3.
Spika JS, Halsey NA, Le CT, et al.
Decline of vaccine-induced antipneumococcal antibody in children with nephrotic syndrome.
Am J Kidney Dis 1986;7:466-70.
Vella PP, McLean AA, Woodhour AF, Weibel RE, Hilleman MR.
Persistence of pneumococcal antibodies in human subjects following vaccination.
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 1980;164:435-8.
Hilleman MR, Carlson AJ, McLean AA, Vella PP, Weibel RE, Woodhour AF.
Streptococcus pneumoniae polysaccharide vaccine: age and dose responses, safety, persistence of antibody, revaccination, and simultaneous administration of pneumococcal and influenza vaccines.
Rev Infect Dis 1981;3(suppl):S31-S42.
Kraus C, Fischer S, Ansorg R, Hðttemann U.
Pneumococcal antibodies (IgG, IgM) in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease 3 years after pneumococcal vaccination.
Med Microbiol Immunol 1985;174:51-8.
Minor DR, Schiffman G, McIntosh LS.
Response of patients with Hodgkin's disease to pneumococcal vaccine.
Ann Intern Med 1979;90:887-92.
Schmid GP, Smith RP, Baltch AL, Hall CA, Schiffman G.
Antibody response to pneumococcal vaccine in patients with multiple myeloma.
J Infect Dis 1981;143:590-7.
Romero-Steiner S, Pais L, Holder P, Carlone GM, Keyserling, H.
Program and Abstracts of American Society for Microbiology.
98th Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, May 21-25, 1995.
Fine MJ, Smith MA, Carson CA, et al.
Efficacy of pneumococcal vaccination in adults: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
Arch Intern Med 1994;154:2666-77.
Brichacek B, Swindells S, Janoff EN, Pirruccello S, Stevenson M.
Increased plasma HIV-1 burden following antigenic challenge with pneumococcal vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1996;174:1191-9.
MacLeod CM, Hodges RG, Heidelberger M, Bernhard WG.
Prevention of pneumococcal pneumonia by immunization with specific capsular polysaccharides.
J Exp Med 1945;82:445-65.
Pneumonia in old age: active immunization against pneumonia with pneumococcus polysaccharide -- results of a six year study.
Arch Intern Med 1947;79:518-31.
Austrian R, Douglas RM, Schiffman G, et al.
Prevention of pneumococcal pneumonia by vaccination.
Trans Assoc Am Physicians 1976;89:184-9.
Smit P, Oberholzer D, Hayden-Smith S, Koornhof HJ, Hilleman MR.
Protective efficacy of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccines.
JAMA 1977;238:2613-6.
Riley ID, Tarr PI, Andrews M, et al.
Immunisation with a polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine.
Lancet 1977;1:1338-41.
Efficacy of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccines.
Rev Infect Dis 1981;3(suppl):S82-S96.
Shapiro ED, Clemens JD.
A controlled evaluation of the protective efficacy of pneumococcal vaccine for patients at high risk of serious pneumococcal infections.
Ann Intern Med 1984;101:325-30.
Simberkoff MS, Cross AP, Al-Ibrahim M, et al.
Efficacy of pneumococcal vaccine in high-risk patients: results of a Veterans Administration cooperative study.
N Engl J Med 1986;315: 1318-27.
Forrester HL, Jahnigen DW, LaForce FM.
Inefficacy of pneumococcal vaccine in a high-risk population.
Am J Med 1987;83:425-30.
Sims RV, Steinmann WC, McConville JH, King LR, Zwick WC, Schwartz JS.
The clinical effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccine in the elderly.
Ann Intern Med 1988;108:653-7.
Shapiro ED, Berg AT, Austrian R, et al.
The protective efficacy of polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.
N Engl J Med 1991;325:1453-60.
Farr BM, Johnston BL, Cobb DK, et al.
Preventing pneumococcal bacteremia in patients at risk: results of a matched case-control study.
Arch Intern Med 1995;155:2336-40.
Spika JS, Fedson DS, Facklam RR.
Pneumococcal vaccination -- controversies and opportunities.
Infect Dis Clin North Am 1990;4:11-27.
Klein JO, Teele DW, Sloyer JL, et al.
Use of pneumococcal vaccine for prevention of recurrent episodes of otitis media.
In: Weinstein L, Fields BN, eds.
Seminars in infectious disease.
New York: Thieme-Stratton Inc, 1982;305-10.
Lin JD, Sisk JE, Moskowitz A, Fedson DS.
Abstracts of the American Public Health Association 124th Annual Meeting and Exposition.
New York, NY, November 17-21,1996, p.
DeStefano F, Goodman RA, Noble GR, McClary GD, Smith SJ, Broome CV.
Simultaneous administration of influenza and pneumococcal vaccines.
JAMA 1982;247:2551-4.
American Academy of Pediatrics.
1994 Red book: report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases.
Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics 1994:371-5.
Assessing adult vaccination status at age 50 years.
MMWR 1995;44:561-3.
American College of Physicians Task Force on Adult Immunization, Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Guide for adult immunization.
Philadelphia, PA: American College of Physicians, 1994;107-14.
Immunization of adolescents: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Medical Association.
MMWR 1996;45(No.
Outbreaks of pneumococcal pneumonia among unvaccinated residents in chronic-care facilities -- Massachusetts, October 1995, Oklahoma, February 1996, and Maryland, May-June 1996.
MMWR 1997;46:60-2.
Katzenstein TL, Gerstoft J, Nielsen H.
Assessments of plasma HIV RNA and CD4 cell counts after combined Pneumovax and tetanus toxoid vaccination: no detectable increase in HIV replication 6 weeks after immunization.
Scand J Infect Dis 1996;28:239-41.
Garner CV, Pier GB.
Immunologic considerations for the development of conjugate vaccines.
In: Cruse JM, Lewis RE, eds.
Conjugate vaccines.
Basel, Switzerland: Karger, 1989;11-7.
Mufson MA, Hughey DF, Turner CE, Schiffman G.
Revaccination with pneumococcal vaccine of elderly persons 6 years after primary vaccination.
Vaccine 1991;9:403-7.
Borgoåo JM, McLean AA, Vella PP, et al.
Vaccination and revaccination with polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccines in adults and infants.
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 1978;157:148-54.
Mufson MA, Krause HE, Schiffman G.
Reactivity and antibody responses of volunteers given two or three doses of pneumococcal vaccine.
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 1984;177:220-5.
Rigau-Perez JG, Overturf GD, Chan LS, Weiss J, Powars D.
Reactions to booster pneumococcal vaccination in patients with sickle cell disease.
Pediatr Infect Dis 1983;2:199-202.
Snow R, Babish JD, McBean AM.
Is there any connection between a second pneumonia shot and hospitalization among Medicare beneficiaries?
Pub Hlth Rep 1995;110:720-5.
Gaston MH, Verter JI, Woods G, et al.
Prophylaxis with oral penicillin in children with sickle cell anemia.
N Engl J Med 1986;314:1593-9.
Faletta JM, Woods GM, Verter JI, et al.
Discontinuing penicillin prophylaxis in children with sickle cell anemia.
J Pediatr 1995;127:685-90.
Mofenson LM, Moye J, Bethel J, et al.
Prophylactic intravenous immunoglobulin in HIV-infected children with CD4+ counts of 0.20x10 9/L or more: effect on viral, opportunistic, and bacterial infections.
JAMA 1992;268:483-8.
Update on adult immunization: recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP).
MMWR 1991;40(No.
RR-12):42-4.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Healthy People 2000: National health promotion and disease prevention objectives.
Washington, DC: Public Health Service, 1991.
Influenza and pneumococcal vaccination coverage levels among persons aged greater than or equal to 65 years.
MMWR 1995;44:506-7,513-5.
Increasing pneumococcal vaccination rates -- United States, 1993.
MMWR 1995;44:741-4.
Gyorkos TW, Tannenbaum TN, Abrahamowicz M, et al.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of immunization delivery methods.
Can J Public Health 1994;85(suppl):S14-S30.
Klein RS, Adachi N.
An effective hospital-based pneumococcal immunization program.
Arch Intern Med 1986;146:327-9.
Crouse BJ, Nichol K, Peterson DC, Grimm MB.
Hospital-based strategies for improving influenza vaccination rates.
J Fam Pract 1994;38:258-61.
Schwartz B, Breiman R.
JAMA 1990;264:1154-5.
Improving the use of pneumococcal vaccine through a strategy of hospital-based immunization: a review of its rationale and implications.
J Am Geriatr Soc 1985;33:142-50.
Fedson DS, Harward MP, Reid RA, Kaiser DL.
Hospital-based pneumococcal immunization.
Epidemiologic rationale from the Shenandoah study.
JAMA 1990;264:1117-22.
Pneumococcal immunization program -- California, 1986-1988.
MMWR 1989;38:517-9.
Campbell JF, Donohue MA, Nevin-Woods C, et al.
The Hawaii pneumococcal disease initiative.
Am J Public Health 1993;83:1175-6.
Buffington J, Bell KM, LaForce FM, et al.
A target-based model for increasing influenza immunizations in private practice.
J Gen Intern Med 1991;6:204-9.
Cheney C, Ramsdell JW.
Effect of medical records' checklists on implementation of periodic health measures.
Am J Med 1987;83:129-36.
Cohen DI, Littenberg B, Wetzel C, Neuhauser D.
Improving physician compliance with preventive medicine guidelines.
Med Care 1982;20:1040-5.
Clancy CM, Gelfman D, Poses RM.
A strategy to improve the utilization of pneumococcal vaccine.
J Gen Intern Med 1992;7:14-8.
Baltimore RS.
JAMA 1992;268:3366-7.
Robbins JB, Schneerson R.
Polysaccharide-protein conjugates: a new generation of vaccines.
J Infect Dis 1990;161:821-32.
Steinhoff MC, Edwards K, Keyserling H, et al.
A randomized comparison of three bivalent Streptococcus pneumoniae glycoprotein conjugate vaccines in young children: effect of polysaccharide size and linkage characteristics.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1994;13:368-72.
Kayhty H, Ahman H, R½nnberg P-R, Tillikainen R, Eskola J.
Pneumococcal polysaccharide-meningococcal outer membrane protein complex conjugate vaccine is immunogenic in infants and children.
J Infect Dis 1995;172:1273-8.
Leach A, Ceesay SJ, Banya WA, Greenwood BM.
Pilot trial of a pentavalent pneumococcal polysaccharide/protein conjugate vaccine in Gambian infants.
Pediatr Infect Dis J 1996;15:333-9.
Anderson EL, Kennedy DJ, Geldmacher KM, Donnelly J, Mendelman PM.
Immunogenicity of heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in infants.
J Pediatr 1996;128:649-53.
Douglas RM, Hansman D, Miles HB, Paton JC.
Pneumococcal carriage and type-specific antibody.
Failure of a 14-valent vaccine to reduce carriage in healthy children.
Am J Dis Child 1986;140:1183-5.
Dagan RR, Melamed M, Muallem L, et al.
Reduction of nasopharyngeal carriage of pneumococci during the second year of life by a heptavalent conjugate pneumococcal vaccine.
J Infect Dis 1996;174:1271-8.
Table_1 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Studies of pneumococcal vaccine efficacy and effectiveness =========================================================================================================================================================================== % Efficacy or Study, publication Type of pneumococcal effectiveness * (95% year (reference) Population studied Study design infection studied confidence interval) + ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- MacLeod, 1945 (69) Young U.
+ If not provided in the published report, 95% confidence intervals were calculated by using Epi-Info version 5.01a (CDC/World Health Organization, Atlanta, GA).
& Unpublished study summarized in reference 74.
pneumoniae recovered from a normally sterile body site.
** Included persons with anatomic or functional asplenia, dysgammaglobulinemia, hematologic malignancy, metastatic cancer, or systemic lupus erythematosus.
&& Efficacy during first 3 years after vaccination.
@@ Included persons with sickle cell disease, anatomic asplenia, dysgammaglobulinemia, hematologic malignancy, chronic renal failure, nephrotic syndrome, history of organ transplant, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
=========================================================================================================================================================================== Return to top.
Table_2 Note: To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
Persons aged 2-64 years with A Not recommended.
chronic cardiovascular disease, @ chronic pulmonary disease, ** or diabetes mellitus Persons aged 2-64 years with alco- B Not recommended.
Persons aged 2-64 years living in C Not recommended.
chronic renal failure, or nephrotic syndrome; those receiving immu- nosuppressive chemotherapy (including corticosteroids); and those who have received an organ or bone marrow transplant.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * The following categories reflect the strength of evidence supporting the recommendations for vaccination: A=Strong epidemiologic evidence and substantial clinical benefit support the recommendation for vaccine use.
B=Moderate evidence supports the recommendation for vaccine use.
C=Effectiveness of vaccination is not proven, but the high risk for disease and the potential benefits and safety of the vaccine justify vaccination.
+ Strength of evidence for all revaccination recommendations is "C." & If earlier vaccination status is unknown, patients in this group should be administered pneumococcal vaccine.
@ Including congestive heart failure and cardiomyopathies.
** Including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema.
++ Including cirrhosis.
&& Including sickle cell disease and splenectomy.
@@ Including Alaskan Natives and certain American Indian populations.
================================================================================================================== Return to top.
Figure_1 Return to top.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Active Bacterial Core surveillance (ABCs) SEARCH About ABCs Enhanced Pertussis Surveillance Methods Isolates and Data Bact Facts Interactive Surveillance Reports VIEW ALL About ABCs Active Bacterial Core surveillance (ABCs) monitors several invasive bacterial pathogens.
Bact Facts Interactive Learn about the interactive, web-based tool to analyze, visualize, and share ABCs data.
Methods Data Collection and Forms Surveillance Reports ABCs ABCs is an active laboratory- and population-based surveillance system for five invasive bacterial pathogens.
Weekly May 16, 2003 / 52(19);446-447 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine Shortage Resolved In February 2000, Prevnar™, a 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine manufactured by Wyeth Lederle Vaccines (Pearl River, New York), was licensed for use among infants and young children.
Beginning in August 2001, the supply of Prevnar™ failed to meet demand, resulting in shortages for health-care providers and health departments.
Vaccine production and deliveries are now adequate to permit a return to the routine vaccination schedule (4).
According to data from CDC tracking systems and the manufacturer, the average number of vaccine doses delivered monthly for each of the preceding 3 months exceeded the monthly estimated average national need, and all back orders have been filled in both the public and private sectors.
In addition, providers should consider vaccine for all other children aged 24--59 months, with priority given to children aged 24--35 months, American Indian/Alaska Native and black children, and those who attend group child care.
A catch-up schedule is provided for children who are incompletely vaccinated (Table).
Because of the frequency of health-care provider visits for children during their first 18 months, catch-up vaccination might occur at regularly scheduled visits for most children who receive vaccines from their primary-care provider; special notification should be considered for children who have completed their 15-month visit and are not scheduled to be seen again before the visit at age 2 years.
Programs that provide vaccinations but do not see children routinely for other reasons also should consider a notification process to contact undervaccinated or unvaccinated children.
Reporting Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Among Vaccinees CDC is investigating situations in which invasive pneumococcal disease occurs despite vaccination.
If pneumococcal isolates are available from vaccinated children, CDC will perform serotyping to determine whether the strain is a type included in the vaccine.
Additional information is available at 
References CDC.
Updated recommendations on the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in a setting of vaccine shortage---Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2001;50:1140--2.
Decreased availability of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
MMWR 2001;50:783--4.
CG Whitney, MM Farley, J Hadler, et al.
Decline in invasive pneumococcal disease after the introduction of protein--polysaccharide conjugate vaccine.
N Engl J Med 2003;348:1737--46.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Pneumococcal vaccination for cochlear implant recipients.
MMWR 2002;51:931.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly October 18, 2002 / 51(41);931 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Pneumococcal Vaccination for Cochlear Implant Recipients CDC and the Food and Drug Administration, in collaboration with state health departments, are investigating the occurrence of bacterial meningitis among cochlear implant recipients (1,2).
The implant, as a foreign body, and the design of the electrode are considered possible risk factors.
Other potential risk factors for meningitis among cochlear implant recipients include a history of meningitis (a leading cause of sensorineural hearing loss), a history of recurrent otitis media, immunodeficiency, a pre-existing inner ear abnormality, and an occult cerebrospinal fluid leak.
As of October 4, 2002, a total of 53 cases of meningitis were reported in the United States among cochlear implant recipients (2).
In the United States, approximately 21,000 persons have cochlear implants (3).
Of the 23 cases for which bacterial culture results were available, 16 were caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) (2).
Vaccination against pneumococcal disease is recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) for persons at increased risk for pneumococcal meningitis.
Because preliminary data suggest a higher risk for pneumococcal meningitis in cochlear implant recipients, CDC recommends that all persons with cochlear implants receive age-appropriate vaccination against pneumococcal disease as recommended for other persons at high risk for invasive pneumococcal disease; recommendations will be reviewed after completion of the investigation.
These persons should receive the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (Prevnar®) or 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide (Pneumovax® and Pnu-Imune®) vaccine, or both, according to ACIP schedules for persons at high risk (4,5).
Additional information on the use of vaccines for cochlear implant recipients is available from CDC's National Immunization Program at 
References CDC.
Cochlear implants and meningitis, frequently asked questions.
Available at 
Food and Drug Administration.
Public health web notification: cochlear implant recipients may be at greater risk for meningitis.
Available at 
National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders.
Health information, hearing and balance.
Available at 
Preventing pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
MMWR 1997;46(No.
Updated recommendations on the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in a setting of vaccine shortage---Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2001;50:1140--2.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Weekly July 9, 2004 / 53(26);589-590 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Notice to Readers: Updated Recommendations for Use of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine: Reinstatement of the Third Dose Please note: An erratum has been published for this article.
To view the erratum, please click here.
In February 2004, production of the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7), marketed as Prevnar® and manufactured by Wyeth Vaccines (Collegeville, Pennsylvania), failed to meet demand, resulting in shortages.
To conserve the limited supply, CDC recommended that the fourth dose of PCV7 be withheld from healthy children (1).
In March, because evidence indicated that production would be curtailed for several months, CDC recommended that the third dose also be withheld (2).
Production problems now appear to have been resolved.
As a result, deliveries are projected during the near term to permit the recommendation that every child receive 3 doses.
Some providers might have short-term difficulties obtaining vaccine because of distribution delays; however, every effort will be made to provide sufficient vaccine to all providers.
Effective immediately, CDC, in consultation with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, recommends that providers administer 3 doses of vaccine (3).
The fourth dose should still be deferred for healthy children until further production and supply data demonstrate that a 4-dose schedule can be sustained.
Alaska Native children and American Indian children who live in Alaska, Arizona, or New Mexico, and Navajo children who live in Colorado and Utah have a risk for invasive pneumococcal disease more than twice the national average.
These children should receive the standard 4-dose PCV7 series despite the shortage.
An interim catch-up schedule is provided for children who are incompletely vaccinated (Table).
Because of the frequency of health-care provider visits by children during their first 18 months, catch-up vaccination might occur at regularly scheduled visits for most children who receive vaccines from their primary-care providers.
Programs that provide vaccinations but do not see children routinely for other reasons should consider a notification process to contact undervaccinated children.
Wyeth Vaccines is allocating nonpublic-purchased doses of Prevnar® directly to all physicians on the basis of previous purchasing patterns or practice birth cohort.
Wyeth does not currently ship products to either wholesalers or distributors.
Providers with questions about their allocation or about obtaining Prevnar® should contact Wyeth's customer service department, telephone 800-666-7428.
For problems not resolved by the customer service department, providers can contact Wyeth directly, telephone 866-447-8888, extension 37932.
For public-purchased vaccine, including Vaccines for Children Program vaccine, providers should contact their state/grantee immunization projects to obtain vaccine.
These projects should contact their project officers at the National Immunization Program at CDC for information regarding vaccine supply.
This recommendation reflects CDC's assessment of the existing national PCV7 supply and will be changed if the supply changes.
Updated information about the national PCV7 supply is available from CDC at 
References CDC.
Limited supply of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: suspension of recommendation for fourth dose.
MMWR 2004;53:108--9.
Updated recommendations on the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: suspension of recommendation for third and fourth dose.
MMWR 2004;53:177--8.
Prevention of pneumococcal disease among infants and young children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2000;49(No.
Pneumococcal vaccination for cochlear implant candidates and recipients: updated recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 2003;52:739--40.
Table Return to top.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The Trump Administration is working to reopen the government for the American people.
Mission-critical activities of CDC will continue during the Democrat-led government shutdown.
Certain federal government activities have ceased due to a lack of appropriated funding.
During the government shutdown, only web sites supporting excepted functions will be updated.
As a result, the information on this website may not be up to date and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries.
Active Bacterial Core surveillance (ABCs) EXPLORE THIS TOPIC SEARCH For Everyone About ABCs Enhanced Pertussis Surveillance Methods Isolates and Data Bact Facts Interactive Surveillance Reports VIEW ALL View All Data Collection and Forms AUG.
21, 2025 WHAT TO KNOW Active Bacterial Core surveillance (ABCs) cases must meet the case definition to be considered part of the surveillance system.
Use the standardized case report forms on all identified cases.
This form contains questions on Basic demographics Underlying conditions Vaccinations Risk factors for infection Surveillance personnel obtain some of the data of interest from the microbiology laboratories.
However, all essential data for describing the population-based epidemiology of these diseases may not be available in many microbiology laboratories.
ABCs sites collect patient medical records data to complement laboratory information.
Sites obtain medical records data through the cooperation of on-site hospital personnel (e.g., infection preventionists).
They can also obtain these data through medical record review by county health department personnel or ABCs personnel.
Surveillance areas regularly assess the completeness of information collected for each case.
ABCs sites revise the data collection methods to correct if any of the core variables are frequently incomplete.
Collect sterile site isolates ABCs sites collect sterile site isolates for each identified case of group A Streptococcus, Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Some sites collect group B Streptococcus isolates.
Sites batch isolates and send them to CDC for further testing and characterization.
SOURCES PRINT SHARE ABCs ABCs is an active laboratory- and population-based surveillance system for five invasive bacterial pathogens.
Weekly July 16, 2004 / 53(27);616 Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
Erratum: Vol.
26 In the notice to readers, "Updated Recommendations for Use of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine: Reinstatement of the Third Dose," an error occurred on page 590; an incorrect telephone number was provided for the customer service department at Wyeth Vaccines.
The correct number is 800-666-7248.
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites.
URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.
Disclaimer All MMWR HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the electronic PDF version and/or the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
